File INDEX on cl-next2.cl.msu.edu

Files under cl-next2.cl.msu.edu:/crypt (via anonymous FTP)

cbw.tar.Z
	Crypt Breaker's Workbench; program to help you cryptanalyze
	messages enciphered with the simple, obsolete program crypt(1).
	Reportedly used to help decipher R. T. Morris's worm from 
   source code found on backup tapes at Cornell.
cloak.txt
	Description of Terry Ritter's controversial (to some)
	Turbo Pascal shareware encryption product CLOAK.
crypt_ran_gen.uue
	"bc" calculator program to generate cryptographically
	strong pseudorandom numbers, by Mark Johnson.  Uses an
	algorithm by Blum, Blum, and Shub.
dss-proposal
	NIST-proposed Digital Signature Standard, as of Summer 1991.
	Controversial.
enigma_2.zip
	Program to simulate the German Enigma cipher machine
	on a PC compatible.  (No source code available, sorry.)
hagelin-dem209.bas
	Program to help decrypt the WWII/Korea War vintage 
	US Army M209 cipher machine.  (This device was based
	on the work of Boris Hagelin.)  Source code in GWBASIC
	(MS-DOS BASIC), probably from a book by Cipher Devours.
hashSig-merkle.shar
	Ralph Merkle's experimental Abstract Xerox Hash Signature
	function, which uses a given hash function (such as Snefru
	or MD4) to implement digital signatures.  Public key
	cryptography is used; the code may be used only for
	experimental purposes.   cf. beta.xerox.com.
hill.Z
	C source for a program that implements a Hill cipher.
	Lester Hill's matrix-math-oriented cipher was one of the
	first sophisticated mathematically-oriented ciphers.
	This is not 1990's stuff, though.  Program by John Cowan.
lucifer.shar
	C source for IBM's Lucifer cipher, a precursor to DES.
md2-kit-verifier.tar.Z
	C Implementation of RSA's MD2 (Message Digest 2) hash
	function, with a copy of RFC 1115, plus a simple program
	to read a file and compute its md2 message digest.
md2.doc.Z
	Document from RSA Data Security describing md2.  From rsa.com.
md4tools.tar.Z
	C implementation of RSA's MD4 (Message Digest 4) hash
	function, with a copy of RFC 1186, a driver program,
	and a program to add an md4 hash to a Usenet article.
	Algorithm by Ron Rivest; additional code by Rich Salz
	and "Kent".
md5.tar.Z
	C implementation of RSA's MD5 (Message Digest 5) has
	function, with a driver and a description of the algorithm.
	By Ron Rivest, RSA DSI.  cf. rsa.com.  Note:  an optimized but
   slightly less portable version of MD5 is available from RSA.COM.
merkle-khufu-khafre.txt
	Document describing Ralph Merkle's Khufu and Khafre
	block ciphers, and his Snefru hash function.
	Khufu and Khafre are 64-bit block ciphers that are much faster
	than DES when implemented on general-purpose hardware.
	Pseudocode for each is included.  (I have learned that Khufu
	and Khafre are patented & I'm no longer that interested in them.)
mrrcip.zip
	Various historial cipher schemes implemented by me years ago.
	Includes C (and some FORTRAN!) sources and PC executables.
neke.ps.Z
   Paper by Michael Merritt and Steven Bellovin entitled
   "Encrypted Key Exchange:  Password-Based Protocols Secure
   Against Dictionary Attacks".
okeefe_encrypt.tar.Z
	C code for a fairly simple block transposition cipher
	based on linear congruential random number generators.
	By R. A. O'Keefe, Edinburgh.
pw_gen.c
	Makes up passwords which have similar letter digraph frequencies 
	to English.
	Converted from Multics PL/I by Bill Sommerfeld, 4/21/86.
	Original PL/I version provided by Jerry Saltzer.
rot13.c
	Source to simple program implementing the famous
	very simple "rot13" cipher.  This was, of course, never
	intended to provide real security; it's used to cloak
	Usenet messages that contain spoilers for games, etc.
scott-newdes-asm.zip
	8086 assembler implementation of below, by Mark Riordan.
scott-newdes-c.zip
	C implementation of NEWDES, an unfortunately-named block
	cipher (doesn't have much to do with DES, but probably
	has similar security) designed by Robert Scott and
	described in a 1985 issue of Cryptologia.  The algorithm
	is pretty fast.  Code by Mark Riordan.
snefru.tar.Z
	C implementation of Ralph Merkle's Snefru hash function.
	Some code by Rich Salz.  Merkle's code courtesy of Xerox.
snefru2.5a.tar.Z
	Slightly more recent version of above.  See beta.xerox.com.

I have resisted the temptation to include any entries from my
large collection of DES implementations, not being certain of
the exportability of that code.  Also, I have included 
no code that I think may violate software patents, as much as
I dislike software patents.

Mark Riordan  riordanmr@clvax1.cl.msu.edu
Revised 4 May 1992
