

                             Videocrypt

                            An Overview

     Researched and written by Darren Ingram, author of Satnews

     - Satnews.. the latest and non-Commercial satellite news -


                      Version 1.34 - 14.05.91


Note:  This  file acknowledges all trademarks and  their  respective 
owners where mentioned in the text.  All rights reserved (C) 1991.

                                 --
Index:

Introduction
Requirements
Features and applications
Scrambling
Customers
Appendices


INTRODUCTION

Videocrypt is a pay-tv scrambling system jointly developed by  Thom-
son Consumer Electronics and News Datacom.   Over one million  users 
receive  Videocrypt encrypted signals and this system, has to  date, 
remained  secure from illicit decoder manufacturers, protecting  the 
revenue of Videocrypted television channels.

REQUIREMENTS 

Videocrypt  is a multi-standard encryption system which is  suitable 
for  PAL, NTSC and SECAM transmissions.  Language is no barrier  for 
Videocrypt  with  its capacity for multi-lingual  transmissions  and 
broadcasts utilising a comprehensive on-screen instruction menu.

Features and applications

A  smart card is the central key to the Videocrypt system,  and  the 
card  can be used for a variety of diverse applications.   The  card 
is  pre-coded  to determine a users requirements and it  can  subse-
quently be addressed utilising the decoders logic to amend the users 
services at the broadcasters will.

There are a number of broadcasting modes which the smart card can be 
used within including:

     Clear Mode
     Signals sent in the clear are recognised by the decoder and
     passed to the display without further processing.

     Free Access
     Pictures transmitted with an encryption key are delivered 
     directly to the display through the decoder.  

     Controlled Access





     Access to encrypted pictures is determined by the level
     of access authorised to the users smart card.  No signals
     will be transmitted in an unencrypted state without prior
     authorisation.

Programmes can be tailored to usage with the Videocrypt system and     
the system offers a flexible way for pay-tv operators.  There are  a 
number of operations mode offered as standard including:

* Single or multiple subscriptions with many tier levels in one
  channel

* Pay Per View (PPV) and impulse purchasing

* Thematic selection (enable all arts programming)

* Geographic limitation (restrict to a country/area)

* Single-event (throwaway cards)

* Parental Control (reception with card only)

* Pre-determined time period

Videocrypt  enables  smart cards to be pre-programmed  to  suit  the 
specific programming requirements.

Smart card - providing the revenue security

Security  can be addressed on a multitude of levels when  using  the 
smart card.  These include:

Chaining

An existing customer would receive a new card which contains part of 
the  new code, the remainder of the code would be  transmitted  when 
the  card is inserted into the decoder and the  subscriber  compiles 
with the instructions contained within the on-screen graphics.

Over-the-air addressing

Systems operators can now address individual subscribers, which is a 
vast  improvement over other scrambling systems.  The  operator  can 
provide  additional  services,  reduce  service  entitlements,  send 
individual messages, blacklist and/or whitelist viewers.

Cloning

A  number of steps have been taken to stop smart cards being  copied 
or cloned.   A physical deterrent is the first line of defence,  and 
the  integrated  circuit contained within the card  makes  "probing" 
very difficult as the IC is likely to become damaged in the process.

Cost  is a second factor which is likely to deter  manufacturers  of 
illegal  decoders.    A  considerable amount of  time,  trouble  and 
expensive resources would be required to clone the card.

The  manufacturers  of Videocrypt recommend that the cards  are  re-
placed  every six months, and each time this is done a  "secret  en-
crypting  algorithm" will be changed.  Any pirate decoders  manufac-
tured during this time would be relatively useless.






And  should  a  pirate decoder be manufactured, it  will  contain  a 
unique  security  code, which could be blacklisted  by  the  systems 
operator  once  the code has been discovered - leading to  calls  of 
complaint by angry customers.




Video taping

Videocrypt  offers  an simple method of tracking  down  pirates  who 
video high-value programming and then distribute it.

The customers unique number can be displayed on the unencoded screen 
for  reference  and future litigation.   Although  an  on-the-screen 
code  can  be generated for signals piracy in a  public  place,  the 
codes  can be hidden in the picture - and retrieved by a  technician 
at a later stage.

Videocrypt-your flexible friend?

Videocrypt  can  be used in a number of applications other  than  tv 
signals protection.  They include:

Messaging, messages can be transmitted to individual subscribers  or 
to a group, so target messaging is now a potential.  Messages  like: 
"Satellite  owners in LONDON call 081 XXX XXXX now for a great  bar-
gain".

Selling, sales over the air can be utilised with the unique identity 
number which verifies an owner and their registered address.    Data 
can be matrixed with a user personality during ad-breaks to  tailor-
make the advertisement.

A unique transaction alphanumeric can be displayed on the TV screen, 
and  the  subscriber  will telephone a given number  and  quote  the 
alphanumeric - and the deal can then be completed in total security.

SCRAMBLING 

The  majority  of  scrambling systems currently on  the  market  are 
dependent on analogue processing circuitry, and it is a hard task to 
get a secure system without picture deterioration.

Videocrypt can encode and decode a picture without degradation.

The crux of the scrambling system evolves around a patented develop-
ment of Active Line Rotation (Cut and Rotate principle).

Every  line  of the signal is cut at a number or  points  along  its 
length,  and  this  is chosen at random by a 60  bit  psuedo  random 
binary  sequence generator (PRBS).   As each cut point differs  from 
the next the signal has no viewing value to an unauthorised  recipi-
ent,  but authorised recipients decoders recode the picture so  that 
the  true  state  of the unscrambled line is always  first  out  for 
display.

The  PRBS is re-seeded at times too, to enhance the security of  the 
system even more.






Before  this  ALR process can take place, the decoder  needs  to  be 
aware  of  the cut point on each of the transmitted lines,  this  is 
provided  within the encryption process.  Each decoder  utilises  an 
PRBS  which reflects the characteristics of the system so  that  the 
two halfs can be synchronised and a viewable picture displayed.




Data is transmitted in a series of over-the-air packets, which looks 
like:

     SYSTEM-----SMART or BLACKLIST

The system comprises of system data included Fiat-Shamir identifica-
tion  information,  on-screen display messages,  fingerprinting  and 
blacklisting data.

The smart card packet comprises of:

     HEADER-----ENCRYPTED DATA-----CHECKSUM

The  Videocrypt encryption system is based around a  tightly-guarded 
secret  which has defeated system hackers throughout the world.    A 
final control algorithm is central to the systems security and  this 
can be changed at will if the system has been hacked.

Complex calculations are performed within the system in order not to 
compromise its security.

But  hackers who have attempted to hack the decoder will  be  disap-
pointed - as there are no secrets held within the system.

Smart Cards
The smart card offers great flexibility to the programme  controller 
and the viewer alike, and is the key to the Videocrypt system.

The  Integrated circuits incorporated within the smart card  have  a 
lot  of power and contain EPROM elements which are partially  burned 
during their manufacture.   The ICs are buried within the design  to 
make the system harder to penetrate.

Smart card block diagram


              -------     -------     -------
VCC  ->       - RAM -     - ROM -     -EPROM-
              -------     -------     -------
                 ^           ^           ^
                       TO AND FROM
              -------------------------------
GND ->        -    INTERNAL BUS             -
              -------------------------------
                      TO AND FROM
              -------     -------     -------
              -8 BIT-     -ANTI -     -S/WRE-
RST ->        -CPU  -     -FRAUD-     -CNTRL-
              -     -     -DVCES-     -I/FCE-
              -------     -------     -------







                CLK        VPP           I/O

Over the air addressing

Algorithmic  information is transmitted to the viewer over the  air, 
encrypted within the Videocrypt system.

This data is transmitted within the Vertical Blanking Interval (VBI) 
and  four  lines are employed for active data and  two  others,  one 
white and one black (for test purposes).

An  application of Non Return To Zero (NRZ) with an constant  energy 
spectrum maximises the systems characteristics.

Four picture-sustaining techniques are used to ensure a high quality 
picture.  Bit interleaving, hamming codes, quadruple repetition  and 
check sums are used within the process.

The  system  can  cope with fringe reception areas  and  will  still 
function correctly with high levels of noise.   

Picture quality

Picture  quality is paramount for any scrambling system and  due  to 
the  standard being of a digital origin, integrity of the signal  is 
maintained  throughout  the encryption  and  de-encryption  process.   
Amplitude sampling is conducted by the decoder and a 14MHz  internal 
clock  ensures jitter-free pictures and unstable framing.   A  digi-
tally  derived Automatic Gain Control (AGC) is also included  within 
the receiver.

Scrambling Sound

Videocrypt  also has the capability of encrypting sound  sources  to 
enhance  the  security  of premium events.  To date  this  level  of 
security has not been utilised by broadcasters.

The system of spectrum inversion renders the sounds received without 
authorisation  worthless.   Videocrypt  transposes  the  frequencies 
transmitted and this in turn removed distortion of the sound.

CUSTOMERS 

The British Sky Broadcasting channels are the first and only  client 
to  use the Videocrypt system in Europe.  Sky Movies was  the  first 
channel to encrypt with Videocrypt on 05/02/90.   The Movie  Channel 
and  Sky  Sports commenced encryption in April 1991,  following  the 
launch of Astra 1B

In August 1990 an order for 10,000 Videocrypt decoders were  ordered 
for an Asian satellite television network called Topaz.

The  British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) have announced plans  to 
use  Videocrypt on their BBC Select service, and a number  of  other 
stations  are  actively  considering its  use  on  satellite  links, 
although no other intentions have been made.

APPENDICES

Technical Data
(supplied by Thomson Consumer Electronics, 1991- subject to change)






VIDEOCRYPT BASEBAND DECODER
* Stand alone video decoder
* On screen display
* De emphasis switch
* Authorise button
* Integrated smart card reader
* Power indicator

PAL MODEL
Video input level             IV +/- 3dB flat and clamped
Baseband input level          250 mV +/- 3dB, unclamped level
                              measured at pre-emphasised transition
                              frequency
Suitable de-emphasis          CCIR 405-1
Video output level            IV p.p. into 75 ohms
Video bandwith                50Hz - 4.8 Mhz -3dB typical
Line tilt                     <_ 1% typical
Luma/Chroma Delay             +/- 50nS typical
S/N ratio:                    50dB typical weighted

CONNECTIONS
AV Peritel (Scart)
Audio loopthrough             Left and right
Pin 8                         High with scrambled video input
                              Low with clear video input
Pin 16                        5v 50mA maximum for external 
                              modulator (OPTION)

MISCELLANEOUS
Standards                     Designed to IEC 65
Operating Temperature Range   5-40 C
Mains Input                   216-255 V AC 50 Hz
Power Consumption             15W
Weight                        2.5Kg

VIDEOCRYPT ENCODER (PAL/SECAM/NTSC)
* 19" rack mounting
* Active line cut and rotate
* Twin or single scrambler
* Separate power supply
* Integrated cooling unit
* Data for control access in the VBI
* RS232 interface

Video input level             IV 75 ohm
Video output level            IV peak to peak +/- 2% 75 ohm
Line tilt                     0.5% typical
Base line distortion          0.5% typical
Chrominance to luminance      3% typical
2T/Bar ratio                  2% typical
Synchro level                 1% typical
S/n ratio RMS weighted        >_ 67dB
Chrominance luminance:
 intermodulation              <_ 2%
 differential gain            1% typical
 differential phase           1" typical
 luminance non-linearity      1% typical
 chrominance/luminance delay  +/- 10nS typical
 video bandwith at 3dB        >_ 5.8 Mhz
Output DC level               300 mV +/- 50 mV





Sampling frequency rejection  >- 50dB at 14 Mhz
Number of bits per sample     10

CONNECTIONS
Connections to security comp  RS232
Local VT100 terminal          ditto
Video in                      BNC 75 ohm
Scrambled video out           BNC 75 ohm

MISC
Local terminal functions are to
 show working parameters
 give warnings
 control local
         remote
         autonomous
Select scrambling mode
 clear
 free access
 control access

Mains input low pass filtering
Audio scrambling using spectrum
inversion 0dB/600 ohm (optional)

ENDS



------------------------------------------------------------------------



Quotes from INSIDE DIRECTV's IRD, Satellite Retailer, March 19

"The technology is owned by News Datacom, which is a wholly owned
subsidiary of News Corporation (whose operations include FOX BROADCASTING
((as in NFL backhauls)), Twentieth Century Fox Film, and a 50 percent
interest  in British Sky Boradcasting Ltd.).  The "zero knowledge"
authentication technology which supports the VideoGuard and VideoCrypt
systems were developed by Professor Adi Shamir, professor of applied
mathematics at the Weizman Institute in Rehovet, Israel, and Dr. Amos
Fiat.  It is this algorithm, along with more traditional encryption
schemes, like DES, which form the technological foundation of the system.
The VideoCrypt decoder is itself based on a cut and rotate method of
scrambling.  According to Dr. Dov Rubin, technical director for the
Israel-based News Datacom, the encoder selects lines at random points
within the television picture at the exact moment of transmission.  The
lines are reversed and broadcast so the picture is unintelligible.  The
specific location of the encoder's cut points is proprietary and critical
to the security of the unit.  As such, the VideoCrypt system employs
"special techniques" to disguise the cut points.  The location of the cut
points is fed into the system through the Security Encoder Computer by
way of a card reader and smart card.  This PC also accepts input from the
Security Database Computer which acts as an interface to the Subscriber
Management System and the program scheduling system.  The Security
Encoder Computer generates packets of data which combine program
identification and scheduling information with a random number.  The
packets of data are fed to the smart card, which processes the
information through a secret algorithm to produce a seed for the Pseudo
Random Bit Sequencer (PRBS).  This process produces a string of eight-bit
numbers, which determine the cut point for each line.  The packets of
information fed to the card are also transmitted over the air.  There are
no secrets in this information.  The decoder extracts these data packets
and feeds them to the smart card in the decoder, which contains the same
algorithms as the smart card in the encoder.  The same seed is therefore
produced, and a similar PRBS reproduces the same cut points, allowing the
decoder to cut the lines in the same place as the encoder and
reconstitute the picture..........Imperative to the security of the
system is that the starting number is "hidden" from view.  In essence,
the VideoCrypt smart card is an active security device.  it is not
something that passively holds keys, as does the other systems.  The
purpose of the VideoCrypt smart card is intrinsically tied to the process
of authorization.  Therefore, when the smart card is changed and replaced
by a programmer for any reason, including a break in the security of the
system, the entire decryption/authorization process may be redesigned and
re-issued without affecting the utilization of the decoder."

"As an example ((of NDC advanced techniques)), VideoCrypt uses the
Fiat-Shamir zero knowledge algorithm, which allows the decoder "to
determine if the card inserted in the decoder is valid."  According to the
company, the zero knowledge characteristics of the decoder stops the
proliferation of cloned cards should any one card be compromised.  Adding
further to the pirate's cost is the type of micro-processor used in the
smart card.  The processor is itself secure which means that it is not
easy to read the information stored on the card or monitor the data which
flows from the card to the decoder.  A special and expensive electron
microscope would be required to dismantle the microprocessor and "in most
cases, the electron microscope would destroy the charge before the pattern
could be determined," says News Datacom."

"The strategy ((issuing new smart cards)) seems to have worked as there
have been no reports of a pirated VideoCrypt since its entrance into the
market in 1989.  VideoCipher, on the other hand was pirated within six
month of its introduction in 1986."

"What's most interesting about VideoCrypt, which is designed and
manufactured by News Datacom, is that while the product appears to be more
secure than VideoCipher, its cost is appreciably less.  A direct cost
comparison is hard to come by.  However integrated receiver descramblers
in the US sell for between $700-$1500 compared to $260 in England, and a
US dishowner upgrading to the VideoCipher RS will plunk down between $300
and $400, while the decoder portion of the Sky Television receiver amount
to under $150."

