Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!usc!usc!not-for-mail
From: adleman@pollux.usc.edu (Len Adleman)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: ANTS: CALL FOR PAPERS
Date: 1 Oct 1993 20:43:22 -0700
Organization: University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA
Lines: 87
Sender: adleman@pollux.usc.edu
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <28itcq$ddl@pollux.usc.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: pollux.usc.edu


			      CALL FOR PAPERS
			      ---------------

		      ALGORITHMIC NUMBER THEORY SYMPOSIUM
		      -----------------------------------
				   (ANTS)

			      CORNELL UNIVERSITY
			       ITHACA NEW YORK

				May 6-9, 1994

				
Papers presenting original research on aspects of Algorithmic Number
Theory, in the broad sense, are sought.  For example, algorithmic
aspects of the following topics would be among those considered
appropriate:

Elementary Number Theory (e.g. Primality Testing, Factoring, Polynomials)

Algebraic Geometry (e.g. Elliptic Curves, Abelian Varieties)

Geometry of Numbers (e.g. Lattice Reduction)

Analytic Number Theory (e.g. zeta-functions, distribution of primes)

Algebraic Number Theory (e.g. Cyclotomic fields, Class numbers)

Computational Complexity (e.g. NP completness, Reductions)

Applications (e.g. Coding theory, Cryptography, Program-checking)
				

Abstract Submission: Authors are requested to send 10 copies
(double-sided printing is preferred) of an extended abstract to:

		    Leonard M. Adleman
		    Department of Computer Science
		    University of Southern California
		    Los Angeles, CA 90089-0781, USA


Submitted abstracts should contain each author's name, affiliation and
email address. Abstracts should not exceed 10 pages in length
(excluding bibliography).

Authors of accepted abstracts will be expected to present
their results at the symposium and must submit a camera-ready
version of their paper for inclusion in the symposium proceedings.
Springer-Verlag has agreed in principle to publish the
proceedings in its Lecture Notes in Computer Science series. A version
of the proceedings will be available at the symposium. 

Researchers interested in a short presentation at the conference may
submit 10 copies of a one page abstract for consideration. Accepted 
abstracts for short presentations will be included in the proceedings
at the option of the authors.

Important Dates:

Abstracts Due                           January 16, 1994
Notification of acceptance/rejection    March 16, 1994
Camera-ready version due                April 16, 1994
ANTS                                    May 6-9, 1994


Programming Committee: Leonard Adleman (Co-Chair), Eric Bach, Ernie
Brickell, Johannes Buchmann, Henri Cohen, Ming-Deh Huang (Co-Chair),
Arjen Lenstra, Nelson Stephens

Endorsement: Len Adleman, Eric Bach, Johannes Buchmann, Joe Buhler,
Henri Cohen, Don Coppersmith, Mike Fried, Joachim von zur Gathen,
Shafi Goldwasser, Dan Gordon, Ming-Deh Huang, Erich Kaltofen, Jeffery
C. Lagarias, Arjen Lenstra, Hendrik W. Lenstra, Victor S. Miller,
Andrew Odlyzko, Carl Pomerance, Claus Schnorr, Rene Schoof, Jeff
Shallit, Dan Shanks, Hugh Williams, Horst G. Zimmer.

Sponsorship: ACSyAM

Organizing Committee: Leonard Adleman, Moss Sweedler

Invited Speakers: Carl Pomerance:  "The Least Witness For A Composite Number"
		  Leonard Adleman: "The Function Field Sieve"

ANTS email list: To be added to the ANTS email list or for other
inquiries contact Leonard M. Adleman (Adleman@pollux.usc.edu).
