Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!mdewitt
From: mdewitt@public.btr.com (Mark DeWitt  mdewitt@btr.com)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Sr. Architect, Security and Authentication EXPERT Silicon Valley, CA recruiter
Date: 5 Oct 1993 19:14:28 GMT
Organization: BTR Communications Company
Lines: 64
Distribution: usa
Message-ID: <28sh2k$87s@openlink.openlink.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: public.btr.com
Keywords: security, authentication, network, transaction management, multimedia, OOP, architecture, cryptography

 recommended that I post it here in hopes that one of you crypto-types would be 

interested and well suited for this job.



Senior Architect , Network Security Services

	You will be part of a senior team defining, architecting and building an

 on-line multimedia information service. Will be responsible for evaluating 

existing protocols for suitability and propose designs.

	Other duties: Maintain contact with vendors, partners, and standards 

groups. Ability to assume a leadership role in creating engineering plans as 

well as becoming the company's expert on network protocols and modeling.

REQUIRED

	Several years work experience in architecting/implementing 

security/authenticity software.  This does not mean simply bolting, an existing 

product onto your application; nor does this mean simply writing cryptographic 

algorithms.  We need a hands-on architect with experience in implementing 

commercial software ( not just in R/D).

	prefer MSCS/EE or equivalent,

	7-12+ years related experience.

	Should be thoroughly familiar with various networking protocols, 

including ISO models, ATM, isochronous and multicast protocols.

	Must have working experience in one of the following: network directory 

services, authentication and security, transaction management and

accounting, multimedia mail or conferencing.

	Skills in programming OO languages like Smalltalk and LISP or in a MM 

environment would be a plus

	Pay will be negotiable depending on experience, it should range between 

$65-95k base with 15% bonus, full benefits and stock program.

	All inquiries are strictly confidential.  Mark DeWitt is the primary 

interface with the client and will work closely with you once we've received 

your resume.. You may reach Mark at The TransPacific Group offices in Menlo Park

 at (415) 327-8801 and fax (415) 327-8802 or via Internet (mdewitt@btr.com).

-- 
Mark DeWitt
