Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!uunet!openlink.openlink.com!public!mdewitt
From: mdewitt@public.btr.com (Mark DeWitt  mdewitt@btr.com)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,comp.security.misc
Subject: JOB- Sr. Architect, Security and Authentication EXPERT SF area, CA recruiter
Date: 5 Oct 1993 20:14:03 GMT
Organization: BTR Communications Company
Lines: 28
Distribution: usa
Message-ID: <28skib$9te@openlink.openlink.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: public.btr.com
Keywords: security, authentication, transaction management, multimedia, OOP, cryptography
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:20134 alt.security:12354 comp.security.misc:5537

Flame me if you must, but after discussing this opportunity with Eric Hughes, he recommended that I post it here in hopes that one of you crypto-types would be interested and well suited for this job.
Senior Architect , Network Security Services
	You will be part of a senior team defining, architecting and building an on-line multimedia information service. Will be responsible for evaluating 
existing protocols for suitability and propose designs.
	Other duties: Maintain contact with vendors, partners, and standards 
groups. Ability to assume a leadership role in creating engineering plans as 
well as becoming the company's expert on network protocols and modeling.

REQUIRED
	Several years work experience in architecting/implementing 
security/authenticity software.  This does not mean simply bolting, an existing product onto your application; nor does this mean simply writing cryptographic algorithms.  We need a hands-on architect with experience in implementing 
commercial software ( not just in R/D).
	prefer MSCS/EE or equivalent,
	7-12+ years related experience.
	Should be thoroughly familiar with various networking protocols, 
including ISO models, ATM, isochronous and multicast protocols.
	Must have working experience in one of the following: network directory services, authentication and security, transaction management and
accounting, multimedia mail or conferencing.
	Skills in programming OO languages like Smalltalk and LISP or in a MM 
environment would be a plus
	Pay will be negotiable depending on experience, it should range between $65-95k base with 15% bonus, full benefits and stock program.
	All inquiries are strictly confidential.  Mark DeWitt is the primary 
interface with the client and will work closely with you once we've received 
your resume.. You may reach Mark at The TransPacific Group offices in Menlo Park at (415) 327-8801 and fax (415) 327-8802 or via Internet (mdewitt@btr.com).


-- 
Mark DeWitt
