Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!news.kei.com!ub!acsu.buffalo.edu!boyd
From: boyd@acsu.buffalo.edu (Daniel F Boyd)
Subject: Re: Stream Cyphers ?
Message-ID: <CEGJLL.Dy5@acsu.buffalo.edu>
Sender: nntp@acsu.buffalo.edu
Nntp-Posting-Host: autarch-14.acsu.buffalo.edu
Reply-To: boyd@acsu.buffalo.edu (Daniel F Boyd)
Organization: UB
References: <931006024131@marvin.jk.uni-linz.ac.at>
Date: Wed, 6 Oct 1993 04:10:33 GMT
Lines: 45

In article <931006024131@marvin.jk.uni-linz.ac.at> 
K317370@ALIJKU11.edvz.uni-linz.ac.at writes:
> Is there any work being done in this area now? Or is
> everyone doing block cyphers (I seem to remember the two as being
> fundamentally opposed, somehow..)

Any block cipher can be converted to a stream cipher.  (Vice versa
too, but that direction is trivial.)  You basically use the block
cipher to generate a cryptographically-strong pseudorandom stream, and
XOR the plaintext with it as you transmit.

Here's one way (it's similar to one of the DES operating modes)

Assume both correspondents share a block-cipher key and a chunk of
random noise that is the length of one block.  This chunk is called
the initialization vector, or 'IV'.

Encrypt the IV using the block cipher.  XOR the result with the first
block of the plaintext data stream, and transmit.  When you have used
up the first block, take the last transmitted block and encrypt it
again with the block cipher.  Now you have another block to XOR with.

The recipient does the same encryptions you do, and XORs his results
with the received data stream to yield the plaintext.

This isn't the best, or even a spectacularly good way to do things;
right off I can see a possible cryptographic weakness.  Consider a
plaintext known to be all-0s -- now the transmitted data is just
E(IV), E(E(IV)), E(E(E(IV))), etc., giving the recipient lots of
{ciphertext,plaintext} pairs to attack the block cipher with.

Also, there's a practical problem -- you can't precompute the sequence
to XOR the plaintext with, so your throughput is limited by the speed
of the block cipher.

But there are other ways, some of which are described in the 'DES
Operating Modes' section of the sci.crypt FAQ.

		Daniel_-_Boyd -- boyd@cs.buffalo.edu

	  UN-altered REPRODUCTION and DISSEMINATION of this
		 IMPORTANT INFORMATION is ENCOURAGED.



