Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!csn!csn!calcite!vjs
From: vjs@calcite.rhyolite.com (Vernon Schryver)
Subject: Re: PEM Crypto Discussion: Restart
References: <1993Oct2.210838.761@cactus.org> <21106.749708812@moose.cs.indiana.edu> <1993Oct5.074229.24052@cactus.org>
Organization: Rhyolite Software
Date: Tue, 5 Oct 1993 20:03:29 GMT
Message-ID: <CEFx1u.2zv@calcite.rhyolite.com>
Lines: 53

In article <1993Oct5.074229.24052@cactus.org> ritter@cactus.org (Terry Ritter) writes:
>...

Why can't you use your notions of "context" to pick a different key and
encryption method with the existing PEM standard?  Just because the message
says "PEM" does not mean that it must be.  I'm serious about suggesting
that you start with your favorite mail user agent code, add MIME and PEM
support if not already present, and then add "context-database driven
alternate algorithm and key" support.

If a PEM header meant only that some kind of encryption were involved,
then your objection would be significantly resolved.   You personally are
in a position to help resolve your objection simply by popularizing an
implemenation.


> I find my objections very compelling, all the more because they
> cost almost nothing beyond the vision of a better design. ....

On purely technical grounds, I think you are right.

However, it was true a long time ago that 90% of "networking" is politics
and no more than 10% concerns technical issues.  I think now there is more
politics as well as a lot more people and money.

Everyone (or everyone reasonably sane) finds their own objections and
suggestions at least somewhat compelling.  The trouble is that everyone
has different ideas and different criteria for judging them.

All else equal, or if you don't have to worry about getting "rough
concensus" as in the IETF or a strict majority or even pro forma unanimity
as in other standards organizations, you go for the best design possible.
In a standards effort, you still go for the best design, but "best
possible" is a political question largely independent of technical or even
business considerations.

Minor issues of having PEM announce itself would not be worth arguing.
There would inevitably be people who could not conceive of ways to avoid
it, or who would be irredeemably offended by an email format that did not
self-identify itself.  No one would spend valuable time or effort arguing
such a minor issue while much more important ones are at hand.  There are
always much more important issues, until long after you are so sick of
the whole human race, or at least people who participate in standards
efforts, that you want nothing more to do with it.  The need to get
something out and stop talking about making it better becomes compelling
after a few years.  PEM is not a young standard by any reasonable measure.

If you really care about PEM, why aren't you worried about the certificate
issuers?  What about the dollar cost issues?   Those seem far more
important that the presense of a header line or two.


Vernon Schryver    vjs@rhyolite.com
