Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!csn!teal.csn.org!mpj
From: mpj@teal.csn.org (Michael Johnson)
Subject: Shareware Crypto Programs
Message-ID: <CEHLv7.2w5@csn.org>
Summary: Caveat Emtor
Sender: news@csn.org (news)
Nntp-Posting-Host: teal.csn.org
Organization: Colorado SuperNet, Inc.
Date: Wed, 6 Oct 1993 17:57:06 GMT
Lines: 66

> sander.schimmelpenninck@canrem.com (Sander Schimmelpenninck) writes:
...

>      1.   Could someone please let me have brief comments on
> the above programs.
      below?

> CRYPTMPJ                 110188 Michael P. Johnson
The user interface is too cryptic, and I wish I used plaintext feedback
instead of ciphertext feedback for better security.  On the other hand,
nobody has proven the cipher to be weak, yet in any practically exploitable
sense (and told me about it).  There will be some improvements when MPJ2 is
released in all these areas.  I do have a high degree of confidence that if
you use it according to the instructions, it will handle any DOS file and is
beyond the ability of the average hacker to break.  I have had some comments
on the key scheduling algorithm that will result in improvement in security
against bad guys with lots of resources in MPJ2.

> PGP23A RSA               070493 Philip Zimmerman

PGP is THE BEST encryption program for electronic mail.

Many other programs were listed.  I don't remember the names of all the ones
I tested, but beware.  Many of them use very weak encryption, and some of
them don't give you your data back intact after encryption/decryption.  Be
sure to test whatever you use very well before trusting it.

>      2.   When will (Crypt)MPJ2 be released and how will I be
> able to get it for review purposes?

I have no fixed schedule... I want to wait for some more comments on the MPJ
algorithm before releasing this.  I also want to study the law a little more
before I release any more encryption software, just to make sure I do it
right.  The first place it will be released to will be the Rainbow Missions
BBS, 303-938-9654.  I will also request comments on the algorithm here.

>      3.   How good are IDEA and Skipjack and where can I
> find them?

IDEA and Skipjack are both good ciphers, as far as I know.  IDEA is used in
PGP for the private key part of the process.  Skipjack is classified, and you
can only get it in a chip that implements it.  It is not available for
software applications.

>      4.   According to my dim understanding, (1) the only
> unbreakable cipher is one made with a one-time pad at least as
> long as the plaintext and based on truly-random numbers and
> (2) the only way to get those is by recording certain kinds of
> noise from space. I have a PC and no radio-astronomy gear.
> Professional cryptanalysts have supercomputers and parallel
> processors. Am I right in believing that they can break all
> shareware-enciphered files with relative ease?

Real random noise need not be from space, but should be a real physical
measurement of a random process, like wind noise on a microphone or
radioactive decay rates.  The output of the measurement may also need to be
post-processed to remove redundancies or regularities.

Not all shareware crypto is weak.  Just most of it.  Don't trust any of it
that doesn't give you the algorithm if you want security from professional
cryptanalysts (even if I wrote the program).  If it does give the algorithm,
check it out to see if you trust it.

                                       Mike Johnson
				       mpj@csn.org

