Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!spool.mu.edu!news.clark.edu!netnews.nwnet.net!news.uoregon.edu!gaia.ucs.orst.edu!connected.com!beauty!rwing!pat
From: pat@rwing.UUCP (Pat Myrto)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: SUMMARY: Re: DES is not dead... Not the issue or Trend
Message-ID: <2597@rwing.UUCP>
Date: 6 Oct 93 17:03:34 GMT
References: <gradyCE3s6D.JD@netcom.com> <1993Sep29.181011.24105@schbbs.mot.com>
Followup-To: talk.politics.crypto
Organization: Totally Unorganized
Lines: 59

NOTE FOLLOWUP CHANGE!!!!

In article <1993Sep29.181011.24105@schbbs.mot.com> mike_barney@email.mot.com (Mike Barney) writes:
>In article <gradyCE3s6D.JD@netcom.com> Grady Ward, grady@netcom.com
>writes:
 [ ... anologies of dubious merit (to me, at least) deleted ...]

>  Don't like something, work the issue. "The process" works for those who
>take the time.  

Sometimes one doean't have the several years (decades?) or megabucks to
'communicate' in a manner that anybody of consequence will listen.
Sometimes there flat isn't the time (as with Skipjack getting entrenched
without alternatives).  People without one or both of those attributes
are usually ignored, get a runaround, or get threats or subpoenas or
other harassment for 'rocking the boat', or to 'make an example'.

Exactly what did Ward or anybody else do that was so improper?  They
made clear what they wanted to do.  The government (predictably) disagreed,
since they almost always do on the first approach.  Ward and company
tried to start a dialog expressing where he had problems with their
logic and wanted to 'communicate' with them.  About all I can figure is
that he might have not expressed his desires or feelings in a sufficiently
servile manner.  That such should even be expected is more evidence
of the arrogance and unresponsiveness of government, especially when
it isn't likely to maintain or expand their power over the people.

Result:  A Grand Jury and a subpoena, with very ominous overtones for
what looks like to me something intended to deter others from considering
making crypto alternatives to Clipper/Capstone available under ANY
conditions, or even bothering these "very important" people...  One
cannot help but wonder how many other people thinking of making
alternatives to Skipjack w/backdoor are scrapping any plans to do so
saying "It ain't worth the hassle to me".  I think that is the general
idea.

It looks very much like a message saying "If you don't have a lot of
bucks and time for a costly fight, you best not even bother us".  Remember
this 'registration' that many seem to think is no big deal that the
government wants because he ASKED for an OK to export at some time (even
if he DOES'T decide to export) isn't exactly free, and no doubt requires
giving up many rights to privacy, such as allowing unannounced 'audits'
at any time.  It sounds more like a 'punishment' for even thinking about
the crypto and bothering them in the first place...  That is how it
seems to be used in this case...  It seems to be a general reaction to
anybody who makes it known they want to have something to do with
crypto, and goes to the trouble to ask.

Espcially repugnant are some posts suggesting that it might be because
of Grady's vocal position on this Skipjack/Clinton-Crapper NSA sccheme.
That someone would consider this, and not be offended by it suggests
a head-in-sand sheep all-power-to-the-STATE attitude that will ruin
this country if it is at all widespread.

-- 
pat@rwing.uucp      [Without prejudice UCC 1-207]     (Pat Myrto) Seattle, WA
         If all else fails, try:       ...!uunet!pilchuck!rwing!pat
WISDOM: "Travelling unarmed is like boating without a lifejacket".
            [Stop the Clipper/Capstone assault on privacy]
