Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!wupost!cs.utexas.edu!natinst.com!hopper.acm.org!ACM.ORG!WARLOCK
From: warlock@ACM.ORG
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re "Re Sternlight's Cat"
Date: 11 Oct 1993 01:34:54 GMT
Organization: ACM Network Services
Lines: 51
Message-ID: <29ad7u$f2l@hopper.acm.org>
Reply-To: warlock@ACM.ORG
NNTP-Posting-Host: acm.org

                 Re "Re Sternlight's Cat"
 
Since David Sternlight holds forth endlessly on sci.crypt in a 
non-scientific/non-technical manner, i.e. political/legalistic/ 
sociological/avuncular etc., once can expect its readership to 
respond in kind as it sees fit.  Like reading a newspaper, read
ers of sci.crypt do not have to read Sternlight pronouncements 
nor reactions to them -- both of which are easily identified.  
However, in no case should *either* be banished (unless both are) 
as atkinson@itd.nrl.navy.mil suggests in an incisive military 
solution to what he sees as a problem.  
  
On the issue of "name" raised by mbeckman@mbeckman.mbeckman.com, 
(are we in a name loop here?) it is not at all clear whether the 
electronic persona designated "David Sternlight" has a single 
corporeal embodiment at all (in spite of widespread knowledge of 
his *name* and nothing else) as evidenced by the recent spate of 
"Is DS Real" postings.  For my part, a detailed biographical and 
bibliographical search of the extensive holdings of the Redstone 
Scientific Information Center, Redstone Arsenal AL, revealed 
nothing at all in the scientific or cryptographic literature 
regarding the person of Mr. Sternlight.  
 
On the positive side, one must admit that the DS entity -- like 
an undertaker -- puts the best possible face on the moribund 
visage of the ill-conceived and archaic tangle of governmental 
cryptographic laws, policies, and initiatives (e.g. didn't
the crypto-pashas first check to see whether the name "Clipper"
was already an industry trademark (Intergraph, Inc.) before
cavalierly bestowing it on one of their offspring?).
 
As such, Sternlight's postings assist in adumbrating this shadowy
and hitherto unchallenged realm and in making precise legal targets
of otherwise vague and freedom-abridging issues that rightly
trouble citizens concerned with privacy and individual rights.                                       
 
Certainly the majority of .mil, .gov, and profiteering contractor 
personnel can be expected to hew to the Sternlight party line. 
If, as atkinson@itd.nrl.navy.mil suggests, we should 
take Sternlight *flamings* to a hypothetical alt.sternlight 
newsgroup, I believe the Hon. DS (whether flesh or electrons) 
should follow respectfully ten paces behind since it is his 
combustible non-scientific postings that attract such lightning.
 
I have never at any time seen any technical or scientific commen-
tary from DS at all on matters cryptographic which, I believe, is 
the primary raison d'etre of sci.crypt.  
 
                 Wm. J. Wilson (aka WARLOCK)
 
 
