Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!uknet!cix.compulink.co.uk!klockstone
From: klockstone@cix.compulink.co.uk (Keith Lockstone)
Subject: Helping Grady and Phil
Message-ID: <CEqLGs.Ds4@cix.compulink.co.uk>
Organization: Compulink Information eXchange
Distribution: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto,alt.security.pgp
Date: Mon, 11 Oct 1993 14:26:51 GMT
Lines: 72


A year ago I found a copy of a book on algorithms in a second-
hand bookshop in London.  The book is:
 
Introduction to Algorithms by T.H. Cormen, C.E. Leiserson and 
R.L. Rivest (of RSA fame).  It was published by MIT Press (for 
international consumption: ISBN 0-262-03141-8) and McGraw-Hill 
(for US consumption: ISBN 0-07-013143-0) in 1990. 
 
In it, Section 33.7 (p 831) provides details of the RSA algorithm 
- covering six and a quarter pages. 
 
There are no comments to be found that caution the user as to 
restrictions when applying any of the algorithms.  The only hint 
comes in the list of references (p 995), where the RSA algorithm 
entry has the comment: 'See also U.S. Patent 4,405,829.' 
 
In the preface, paragraphs addressed to the teacher and the 
student advise the reader on the usability of the book's 
contents.  The next three paragraphs (p xiv), addressed 'To the 
professional' are worded in a similarly helpful fashion: 
 
          The wide range of topics in this book makes it an 
        excellent handbook on algorithms. Because each chapter is 
        relatively self-contained, you can focus in on the topics 
        that most interest you.
 
          Most of the algorithms we discuss have great practical 
        utility. We therefore address implementation concerns and 
        other engineering issues. We generally provide practical 
        alternatives to the few algorithms that are primarily of 
        theoretical interest.
 
          If you wish to implement any of the algorithms, you 
        will find the translation of our pseudocode into your 
        favorite programming language a fairly straightforward 
        task. The pseudocode is designed to present each 
        algorithm clearly and succinctly. Consequently, we do not 
        address error-handling and other software-engineering 
        issues that require specific assumptions about your 
        programming environment. We attempt to present each 
        algorithm simply and directly without allowing the 
        idiosyncrasies of a particular programming language to 
        obscure its essence.
        
If I read this book, then I feel totally free to use RSA as I 
wish - because R.L. Rivest has said I can.  
 
As a layman, reading the ITAR regulations, I must conclude that 
this book totally breaches US law.  Furthermore I note that it 
has been broken by one of the originators of RSA - who presumably 
has an interest in PKP.
 
Would other people with an interest in helping Grady and Phil 
please look through their files, books and references for similar 
examples of anomalous behaviour.  Particularly where serious 
cryptographic technology has been published outside of the USA by 
those with vested interests.  (Or in journals with international 
circulations) 
 
Another thought, was Adi Shamir a US citizen at the time that RSA 
was devised?  If not, is he subject to ITAR regulations?
 
Best Regards,
 
Keith Lockstone.
 
 
ALL COMMENTS PLEASE TO TALK.POLITICS.CRYPTO OR ALT.SECURITY.PGP - 
ANY FOLLOW-UP COMMENTS HAVE NO PLACE ON SCI.CRYPT. 
 
 
