Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!mehlville.ncsa.uiuc.edu!mitchell
From: mitchell@ncsa.uiuc.edu (myself)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Crypto testing
Date: 15 Oct 1993 02:29:18 GMT
Organization: NCSA - University of Illinois @ Urbana/Champaign
Lines: 30
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <29l1tu$9m1@vixen.cso.uiuc.edu>
References: <CEuBFI.FpB@cix.compulink.co.uk> <CEwst5.DIr@acsu.buffalo.edu>
Reply-To: mitchell@ncsa.uiuc.edu (myself)
NNTP-Posting-Host: mehlville.ncsa.uiuc.edu

I think it would be a great idea for us to develop some series of
tests to check the strength of proposed cipher systems.  While a
single program would be nice to have, it doesn't seem like it would
be either very practical to develop, or very effective.

What would probably work best would be a library of routines which
analyze some of the simpler traits of ciphers.  For example, an
implementation of some of Knuth's random number tests to use in
the testing of stream ciphers.  Input could be some number of null
bytes encrypted by the stream cipher; the test routine would then
check for frequency distributions, etc.  Another test which shouldn't
be too difficult would be something to check and make sure that
a block cipher adhered to the avalanche criteria.

If enough people with the time and skills got into a project like
this, a pretty good set of tests would begin to develop.  The long-
term goal to work towards would be a set of tests which gave a good
indication of whether or not any given cipher would fall prey to
known cryptanalytic techniques.  While this goal is a long way off,
you have to start somewhere.

Other sci.crypters willing, I would like to continue this thread,
first with a discussion of what tests would be the most useful in a
general purpose sense, such as frequency analysis on stream ciphers.  
It wouldprobably be best to work towards two sets of tests, one for
stream ciphers and another for block ciphers.

Anyone up for it?

-David Mitchell
