Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!sdd.hp.com!portal!cup.portal.com!Christopher_C_Lapp
From: Christopher_C_Lapp@cup.portal.com
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: happy spies are good spies
Message-ID: <93425@cup.portal.com>
Date: Sun, 17 Oct 93 12:17:24 PDT
Organization: The Portal System (TM)
Distribution: usa
Lines: 70

Consider this contradictory and dangerous situation 
that can be exploited by an enemy:

1.  I am an employee of secret government 
organization.  I am expendable.  I may be sacrificed 
for any reason my employers deem necessary, and I 
will have nothing to say about how or why I will 
die.

2. Yet, despite the fact that I may die to promote 
the causes of my superiors, I must continue to live 
life as though I am not expendable, and bury my 
fear that I may be sacrificed needlessly.  

3>  If I betray my government, I will be safe, I will 
not have destroyed my former employer.  My new 
employer will not sacrifice me, and I can live live 
without fearing an unnatural and needless death.  

4.  The the choice is between 1) patriotism-fear of 
expendability-cost of burying fear of superiors; and 
2)traitor-no longer expendable, no longer burying 
fears, and an honest life.

Here is the solution to the problem that works in 
my organization, and was discovered through 
harassment, not through policy change.

1. Have a  spy  be introduced through a trusted and 
important business or organizational contact.

2. Have the  spy  propose some sort of money-for-
information deal, and have the members of the 
team discuss it, and contact counter intelligence;

3.  Do this with the various nationalities that 
would be interested in whatever the group is doing, 
and each time make it a personal or group decision.

4.  If somebody decides to defect, have them sell 
the information to the counterintelligence agent, 
and have counterintelligence deal with them.

5.  Run the operation like the button-pushing drills 
that nuclear weapons installations engage in.

A  note:

How can an enemy exploit the psychological 
contradictions that the current organizational 
philosophy breeds?

here are my observations:

1. Spies will be found in areas that 1) minimize 
their perceived expendability.

2. Famous or successful spies will find places to 
work that appear to be quite dangerous (and 
produce valuable information) yet are actually 
quite safe and the information not as valuable as it 
seems.

3>  Organizations with these contradictions will 
have a high rate of anxiety among their employees.

4> These organizations will be hardware oriented, 
seeking to minimize their exposure to  danger,  
and also minimizing the use of human talents like 
value judgements, creativity and empathy.
