Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!milo.mcs.anl.gov!anhep2.hep.anl.gov!mgr
From: mgr@anhep2.hep.anl.gov (Dr. mike)
Subject: Quantum Cryptography
Message-ID: <CF5pnp.56D@mcs.anl.gov>
News-Software: VAX/VMS VNEWS 1.3-4   
Sender: usenet@mcs.anl.gov
Reply-To: mgr@anhep2.hep.anl.gov
Organization: Argonne National Laboratory
Date: Tue, 19 Oct 1993 19:16:28 GMT
Lines: 32

 jreagl1@umbc.edu (Joseph Reagle Jr.) writes (for the second time):

>	I've been researching Quantum Cryptorgraphy (Benett, Brassard, Ekert,
> et el.), and is it possible by using photon interferometry to have multi-node
> fiber optic cable for transmission.  That is, theoretically the distance for
> key transmission will _not_ be limited as it would be in the traditional
> photon polarization scheme.

Off the top of my head I'd say no.  The whole idea is to use single quanta
to generate the bits you're going to use.  Any losses are assumed to come
from intercepters.  A fiber optic cable has transmission losses so no single
quanta would likely make the whole trip.

However, you could up the frequency rate such that the probablilty of getting
a single quanta of light thru the cable was sufficintly high that it might
be possible to overcome this problem.  I'd think you lose the desired
property of destroying the channel if anyone is listening but the correlations
that make it would still not have been observed by anyone (thing?) else.

Along similar lines you might investigate the long baseline gravity wave
detectors now being envisioned.  These are essentially 1000 kilometer
interferometers.  They operate in vacuum (one idea is to put it in orbit)
so there are no losses from absorbtion.  The distance between the mirrors
is incredable, so it might be possible to build a quantum crypto system
between a set of buildings using similar techniques.  Not much good for
spys, but Washington DC might burry some vacuum pipe between all their
bureacracies to keep "the people" from knowing what they're doing :-)

Patience, persistence, truth,		reality: dvader@sun0.hep.anl.gov
Dr. mike				home:    mrosing@igc.org
IMI, P.O.Box 2242, Darien IL 60559, 708-859-0499

