Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!decwrl!envoy.wl.com!reeve.research.aa.wl.com!dom015.dom.aa.wl.com!user
From: bornemd@aa.wl.com (Dirk Bornemeier)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Electronic Voting
Followup-To: sci.crypt
Date: Fri, 22 Oct 1993 16:58:07 -0500
Organization: Warner-Lambert
Lines: 35
Message-ID: <bornemd-221093165807@dom015.dom.aa.wl.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: dom015.dom.aa.wl.com

It was suggested that I post this question to this group.  After not
finding any direct references to voting in the FAQ, I decided to do that. 
Please make response as simple as possible since I am not versed in the
theory or jargon of cryptography.


Thanks in advance,

Dirk Bornemeier
Ann Arbor, MI

-----------------

Is there a 'procedure' that would allow people to vote using a touch tone
phone AND assure them of anonymity AND verify that they are on the current
list of registered voters?  This system could require them to register in
person in advance, and could require them to obtain a  "secret" number (up
to about 10 digits) if necessary, but shouldn't require much more than that
(i.e., no third parties, no smart or encrypted cards, no 100 digit prime
numbers, etc.).

This doesn't seem possible to me, but you seem to know much more about
these things than I do.  Any schemes I can imagine always get hung up on
the anonymity condition (even if I don't concern myself with things like
call-tracing, etc.) because verifying eligibility requires identification. 
The only solutions I see involve using a mutually trusted third party to
perform the verification and then pass qualified voters anonymously on to
the "polling mechanism", but I find this to be an undesirable compromise. 
If there isn't a system that meets my requirements, feel free to descibe
what you
see as the "next best" system (my guess is this uses a smart card that acts
as the "trusted third party").

I'd love to implement a system like this if I could find one.  Please, let
me know what you know on the subject.
