Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!ames!pacbell.com!amdahl!netcomsv!netcom.com!grady
From: grady@netcom.com (Grady Ward)
Subject: Codebreakers review
Message-ID: <gradyCFCtnK.9on@netcom.com>
Organization: Moby lexicons
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL8]
Date: Sat, 23 Oct 1993 14:30:56 GMT
Lines: 87

Codebreakers: The inside story of Bletchley Park
Edited by F. H. Hinsley & Alan Stripp
Oxford University Press 1993


	Codebreakers is a first-hand account of the 
cryptanalysis accomplished at Bletchley Park during the 
second World War written by twenty-eight participants.
In spite of the passage of fifty years and lack of notes for 
secrecy's sake, the importance of the work within the lives 
of the authors makes this a series of compelling social and 
technical vignettes.
	The purpose of Codebreakers, according to F. H. Hinsley, 
is to assess the importance of Ultra (the umbrella term for 
all high-level codebreaking activities during W.W.II) 
measured against the overall effort of winning the war. In a 
sense there never can be a completely satisfactory account of 
this kind of intelligence work because the need for 
continuing secrecy for many of the facts surrounding the 
collection of the material. This secrecy works against 
presenting a coherent account of the entire process of 
intelligence assimilation, processing, and dissemination 
since it encourages participants to think anecdotally and 
tangentially rather than with a view to creating an 
integrated view of their role.  Despite this historiographic
handicap, Codebreakers is a comprehensive account of the
continuing process of producing and summarizing axis
decrypts, now tempered with the participant's sure
knowledge on the final strategic and tactical effect they
had on specific battles, including Operation Overlord
(Normandy) and by implication, the specific effect of
cryptanalysis upon the course of Allied resistance.
	It has relevance for the student of cryptography in 
several ways.  While none of the effects of a specific 
decrypt were as dramatic as Kahn's (The Codebreakers, 
Macmillan) account of the killing of Admiral Yamamoto after 
his itinerary was revealed through the cryptanalysis of the 
Japanese Purple, there is enough evidence to infer that 
Rommel, for example, might very well have succeeded in taking 
Cairo, or that decrypts were crucial to neutralize the U-
boats in the crucial months before the Allied invasion of 
France.
	Most of the Bletchley decrypts were of medium to low 
grade ciphers that served not to pinpoint certain exploitable 
facts but rather to paint an entire picture of placement, 
readiness, and direction of the scattered axis forces. While 
hard to unbraid the specific contribution of this kind of 
general intelligence to the entire prosecution of the war, 
the contributors, echoing Kahn or Tuchman (The Zimmermann 
Telegram, Bantam) have little doubt of the tens of thousands 
of lives that successful cryptanalysis saved over the past 
sixty years. This perhaps gives some insight into the NSA and 
State Department jeremiads over widespread cryptographic 
empowerment at the ending of their monopoly over secure and 
practical cryptographic systems.
	To the student of the Enigma machine or of various 
medium-grade Japanese or Italian code or table cipher 
systems, several chapters detail their operation, including a 
few plates and several diagrams of wiring and relay 
arrangements explicating the internals of the machine. To the 
student of how the computing machines were hurriedly first 
designed to assist in generalizing 'cribs', or plaintext-
ciphertext pairs, into recovery of keys (that often changed 
daily) there are recollections of the trials and mistrials of 
design and operation of untried technologies under pressure.
	Even to the student who is interested in securing or 
interpreting communications in this new world of mechanized 
and algebraized ciphers the book is useful in providing 
further checklists in preventing historic sources of weakness 
and points of practical cryptanalytic leverage in modern 
systems.
	Overall the book feels incomplete, as none like it could 
be given perceived geopolitical necessities, but to the small 
bookshelf of unclassified cryptanalytic history it is a solid 
addition.

322 pages with general and cipher index,  $24.95
ISBN 0-19-820327-6

comments to: Grady Ward    grady@netcom.com


-- 
Grady Ward          | compiler of:            | "Look!"
grady@netcom.com    | Moby Words, Hyphenator  |     -- Madame Sosostris
+1 707 826 7715     | Part-of-Speech          | 15 E2 AD D3 D1 C6 F3 FC
(voice / 24hr FAX)  | Pronunciator, Thesaurus | 58 AC F7 3D 4F 01 1E 2F
