Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!avdms8.msfc.nasa.gov!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!news.columbia.edu!merhaba.cc.columbia.edu!ndw1
From: ndw1@merhaba.cc.columbia.edu (Nikolaos Daniel Willmore)
Newsgroups: alt.security.pgp,alt.security.ripem,sci.crypt
Subject: Re: PROPOSAL for the future of privacy on the Internet
Date: 25 Oct 1993 02:00:57 GMT
Organization: Columbia University
Lines: 37
Message-ID: <2afc0p$mee@apakabar.cc.columbia.edu>
References: <1993Oct24.020017.27478@galileo.cc.rochester.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: merhaba.cc.columbia.edu
Summary: Best of both worlds
Keywords: PGP, RSA
Xref: msuinfo alt.security.pgp:5825 alt.security.ripem:354 sci.crypt:20635

I see this thread about to become self-confused due to the conflict
between personal security and centralized handed-down security.  Those who
design beautiful central systems realize that we need EVERYONE to use
encryption so we can hide our own messages in with the noise, and that 99%
of e-mail users don't know what the internet it and aren't willing to
figure out PGP in its present form.  Those like myself with devious minds
realize that others are also devious and will rd our centrally
maintained e-mail, if only for the challenge of figuring out how to do so.
I will never trust my e-mail unless I encrypted it on my own box.

Answer:

1) Support the creation of a central security system for all e-mail
so that encrypted messages are not the anomaly that they are today.  Let
the masses use that, since they have not the need or the ability to learn
to use PGP.  The only alternative is trying to put PGP itself (in a vastly
improved form) onto everyone's home and office computers.  Making it
available on the internet by FTP will not do this.  Nothing will do this
short of a commercial during the Super Bowl, mass floppy mailings (like
America Online), and versions of PGP for every conceivable computer that
are as easy to use as a game.  I do not see this happening.

2)  With such a transparent e-mail security system in place, if you don't
trust it then ignore it!  Go on using PGP, using the already encrypted
standard e-mail packets to send (and hide!) your PGP messages.  Improve
PGP's user interface to the point where it runs on Windows and the Mac as
easily as a simple word processor so people who are simply too concerned
with running the world to figure out the cryptic user interface and
documentation with the current PGP versions can use it too if they want
personal security.

Automatic encryption is coming, no matter what, soon.  You can resist it
or you can help improve it, but you don't have to use it instead of PGP.




