Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!network.ucsd.edu!mvb.saic.com!ast.saic.com!actd!agnew
From: agnew@actd.actd.saic.com (Bob Agnew)
Subject: Re: Hardware random
Message-ID: <1993Oct25.153547.5777@ast.saic.com>
Sender: news@ast.saic.com
Reply-To: agnew@actd.actd.saic.com
Organization: Science Applications International Corporation
References: <CFEo8r.Ktt@ns1.nodak.edu>
Date: Mon, 25 Oct 1993 15:35:47 GMT
Lines: 34

In article Ktt@ns1.nodak.edu, lihke@plains.NoDak.edu (Robert Lihke) writes:
>Couldnt a simple, cheap hardware random number device be made  that
>combined the analog signals of AM radio noise (in a non-AM band) with
>another factor, say, temperature? This should not be TOO expensive.
>

I have been considering marketing a PC board which generates trully
random, and controllaby independent bytes. This device would work in
practically any PC and be accessible through either the "port"
instruction or through a raw character device driver that I would
provide. Thus one could just open a file and read random bytes. These
bytes would be uniformly distributed over the 256 8-bit values.  The
device would produce indepenent bytes as rapidly as the PC bus can
access them, that is at 8 Mbytes a second. There is an adjustment for
minimizing the serial correlation copefficient. I am still
breadboarding and testing so I am hesitant to specify the maximum
serial correlation yet but it should be on the order of 0.01 to 0.001.
This is strictly a function of the effective noise power spectral
density function. Since this is necessarily bandlimited by the noise
amplifiers, the autocorrelation function of the noise process before
sampling will have zeroes and sidelobes which affect the correlation
coefficient.

I am trying to keep the list price under $50. I have been told by many
that there is no market for such a device. From this and other articles
on this group, perhaps there is a niche market. I could easily produce
more expensive boards to produce 16 and 32 bits words at increased
throughput.

  ---
"Those who cannot cope with mathematics are not fully human. At best they
are tolerable sub-humans who have been taught to bathe and not make messes
in the house."  From the Notebook of Lazarus Long (Robert Heinlein)

