Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!sunic!kth.se!hemul.nada.kth.se!md85-epi
From: md85-epi@hemul.nada.kth.se (Urban Koistinen)
Subject: Re: Crypto Question
Message-ID: <1993Oct26.090418.11019@kth.se>
Sender: usenet@kth.se
Nntp-Posting-Host: hemul.nada.kth.se
Organization: Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden
References: <2ahrg2$5g@news.delphi.com>
Date: Tue, 26 Oct 1993 09:04:18 GMT
Lines: 37

In <2ahrg2$5g@news.delphi.com> lionhear@news.delphi.com (LIONHEART7@DELPHI.COM) writes:

:This is probably a dumb question, but would consecutive bits of a
:randomly selected irrational number starting at a randomly chosen
:bit position make a good one time pad?

As there exist an infinite number of irrational numbers you would
have to use an infinite+ key length.
A simple OTP would be better if it is long enough.

If you restrict the irrational numbers to the ones that can be
described by a message of a certain length in a certain language,
then the strength depend very much on the length and the language.

The randomly chosen bit position does not buy you much.

: 
:If someone gave you some ciphertext and told you it was produced
:by an exclusive or of the plaintext with the bits of a randomly
:positioned chunk of a randomly chosen irrational number, what
:sort of attack might be used to recover the data?  Assuming ASCII
:plaintext, is there a type of differential cryptanalysis that
:might be employed?

How do I randomly chose an irrational number.

This is not to say that having say pi to one million digits doesn't
help in making a strong cipher.

One good way to produce a cryptographically strong irrational number
is to use my expandable encryption function and double it's size once
every N blocks by duplicating the contents.
I have not proven that it generates irrational numbers though it is
unlikely that it would produce a rational number.
-- 
Urban Koistinen - md85-epi@nada.kth.se
Stop software patents, interface copyrights:  contact lpf@uunet.uu.net
