Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!xlink.net!news.dfn.de!news.dkrz.de!news.rrz.uni-hamburg.de!fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de!bontchev
From: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de (Vesselin Bontchev)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: SHA implementation
Date: 26 Oct 1993 12:56:17 GMT
Organization: University of Hamburg -- Germany
Lines: 38
Message-ID: <2aj6ph$ind@rzsun02.rrz.uni-hamburg.de>
NNTP-Posting-Host: fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

Hello, everybody!

Some time ago, I announced that an implementation of SHA is available
from our ftp site and asked for help to make it independent of the
endianness of the target machine and of the C compiler used to compile
it.

Thanks a lot to Shawn A. Clifford (sac@eng.ufl.edu), who sent me an
idea how to make it endianness-independent. However, while
implementing it, I introduced a couple of bugs, so that the program
was running correctly only on a little-endian machine (on which I have
tested it, of course). Thanks also to Pat Myrto (pat@rwing.uucp), who
spotted the bugs and fixed them. Also, I used some techniques from the
source of Info-ZIP, to make the implementation independent of the
capability of the compiler to work with prototypes.

If meanwhile somebody has downloaded the package, please do it again,
in order to get the "fixed" version. Sorry for the confusion.

Just to remind you, the full reference of the package is

ftp.informatik.uni-hamburg.de:/pub/virus/texts/crypto/shs.zip

Regards,
Vesselin

P.S. I am still looking for an implementation of DSS. Since this
algorithm is not for encryption (it's a public key algorithm which can
be used only for authentication and is supposed to use SHA as a hash
function), there shouldn't be any trouble to export it from the USA.
It is also possible, of course, that some programmer outside the USA 
manages to write an implementation first - the SHA code is written in 
New Zealand. :-)
--
Vesselin Vladimirov Bontchev          Virus Test Center, University of Hamburg
Tel.:+49-40-54715-224, Fax: +49-40-54715-226      Fachbereich Informatik - AGN
< PGP 2.3 public key available on request. > Vogt-Koelln-Strasse 30, rm. 107 C
e-mail: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de        22527 Hamburg, Germany
