Path: msuinfo!agate!spool.mu.edu!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!xlink.net!math.fu-berlin.de!news.rrz.uni-hamburg.de!fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de!bontchev
From: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de (Vesselin Bontchev)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Warning for PGP Users!
Date: 26 Oct 1993 16:09:54 GMT
Organization: University of Hamburg -- Germany
Lines: 46
Message-ID: <2aji4i$m86@rzsun02.rrz.uni-hamburg.de>
References: <2aj9v9$4gg@explorer.clark.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

hal (hal@clark.net) writes:

> I just found out there is a plan afoot to seed modified copies
> of PGP around, one that contains a trapdoor and an imbedded 
> secret flag (within some part of the exchange).  This is *not*

This is fairly easy thing to do, yes.

> being done by any government agency rather some folks: 
> I've heard about who want to pull a big joke on people.

You would do us a better service if you provide some -particular-
information - who, when, where, how, information source. The way you
did it looks like spreading a rumor.

> If you get a copy of PGP make sure you know where it came from!

No, that's irrelevant. Much more important: check the authentication
with an earlier version of PGP that you trust. If you get any new
version that contain no authentication - don't use it. Each new
version of PGP should contain a file with MD5 hashes of each of the
source files, and the whole file with MD5 hash should be clearsigned
by one of the developers (Branko, I think). Also, when a new version
is officially released, one of the developers (Colin, usually) posts a
clearsigned message about it and also posts the detached signatures of
each of the archives.

As far as I know, if you already have the public keys of the
developers (available on the public key servers and in the old
versions of PGP) and an old version of PGP that is not trojanized,
nobody will be able to spoof the authentication - not even the NSA. Of
course, if you want to be paranoid, you can always assume that the
developers themselves have implemented a back door in the product.
Well, if you are -that- paranoid - this is exactly that the source
code is for - go and check yourself, if you don't trust the
developers. Now, if the company that has sold you your C compiler has
installed some backdoor in it (so that it automatically installs a
backdoor in PGP when it compiles it), that's a different story... :-))

Regards,
Vesselin
--
Vesselin Vladimirov Bontchev          Virus Test Center, University of Hamburg
Tel.:+49-40-54715-224, Fax: +49-40-54715-226      Fachbereich Informatik - AGN
< PGP 2.3 public key available on request. > Vogt-Koelln-Strasse 30, rm. 107 C
e-mail: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de        22527 Hamburg, Germany
