Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!newsgate.watson.ibm.com!yktnews.watson.ibm.com!mudvolcano!lwloen
From: lwloen@rchland.vnet.ibm.com (Larry Loen)
Subject: Re: Pencil and paper encryption algorithm
Sender: news@rchland.ibm.com
Message-ID: <1993Oct25.135157.8324@rchland.ibm.com>
Date: Mon, 25 Oct 1993 13:51:57 GMT
Reply-To: lwloen@rchland.vnet.ibm.com
Disclaimer: This posting represents the poster's views, not necessarily those of IBM
References:  <wFmPBc3w165w@works.uucp>
Nntp-Posting-Host: mudvolcano.rchland.ibm.com
Organization: IBM Rochester
Lines: 34

John Taber (who currently has no Internet access) has asked me to post this
note on his behalf (GUNG HO is an American Cryptogram Association member):

Sigh, Larry, this note is self-explanatory.  GUNG HO had sent me his Manual
several years ago, but I didn't read it carefully, and it got buried under a
pile where I all but forgot about it.  Would you please be kind enough to post
it for me?  Thanks.
 
Ross Anderson's reference to Joseph Courville's _Manual for the Cryptanalysis
of the Double Transposition Cipher_ proves to be right on.
 
I'm totally mistaken.  The double transposition is solvable, even by me I
suspect.  I had thought that several messages of same keys and same lengths
would be needed for anagramming.  I'm mind-boggled that just one crypt can be
anagrammed though perhaps not always successfully.  Courville shows an example
that anagrams into two different but plausible plaintexts.  Which one is right
is determined by recovering the column permutations.
 
Once the equivalent permutation is determined by anagramming, the individual
column permutations are recovered by some neat manipulations.
 
My apologies for not checking this out more thoroughly before posting.  In any
case, the double transposition does not seem suitable for Bruce's pencil and
paper cipher.
 
John K. Taber (no net address yet)

-- 
   Larry W. Loen        |  My Opinions are decidedly my own, so please
                        |  do not attribute them to my employer
                        |  Besides, this one isn't my note for a change!

                        |  I applaud John's thouroughness and honesty here.
                        |  Hope he gets Internet access soon!
