Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!sdd.hp.com!portal!cup.portal.com!Christopher_C_Lapp
From: Christopher_C_Lapp@cup.portal.com
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Definition of Encryption
Message-ID: <94408@cup.portal.com>
Date: Thu, 28 Oct 93 16:00:07 PDT
Organization: The Portal System (TM)
Distribution: usa
Lines: 24

Meaning is made up of three main manipulatable parts: data, value, and action
Most cryptographers view encryption as the denial of data to any unauthor-
ized person.  But if the above definition of Meaning is correct, it is 
safe to say that two-thirds of the meaning will get through, even if data
is denied through scrambling.  Thus, the mere act of sending the crypt, the
timing that indicates the importance of the crypt, and the choice of crypto
system reveal almost as much as the data-crypt.  We must rethink the meaning 
cryptography.  A denial of value or a denial of action ability without 
witholding data is at times more destuctive than scrambling bits.  Think abou
it, and think about crytography as the entrypoint to control of meaningful
action.  There are no more Communists, so we have to be nice.  Crypto-weaponr
enables objectives to be obtained without violating the pleasant post-Cold Wa
atmosphere.  I want to build a unified theory from the research I did on
meaning when building a Machine Translation design.  I would really like
to assist my country in defending its interests with something more delicate
than a meat axe.  I suppose I can write short paragraphs on this system--
but wouldn't you like to have your Mita copier put through its paces with
analysis of examples?  Also, I feel I need a security clearance, and some
help on keeping out of trouble and not spilling my guts in a foolish and 
maybe illegal manner.  I started out trying to drive the CIA nuts, because I
felt they had had a role in my mental problems, but my rage fed my ideas and
now I like them I like what they did in Egypt, and now I'd like to keep
producing.
Chris Lapp
