Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!Germany.EU.net!sunmbx.netmbx.de!mailgzrz.TU-Berlin.DE!news.dfn.de!news.dkrz.de!news.rrz.uni-hamburg.de!fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de!bontchev
From: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de (Vesselin Bontchev)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Neural Network approach??
Date: 29 Oct 1993 09:24:52 GMT
Organization: University of Hamburg -- Germany
Lines: 66
Message-ID: <2aqnh4$1pd@rzsun02.rrz.uni-hamburg.de>
References: <1993Oct26.084217.10451@kth.se> <iFL6Bc2w165w@netlink.nix.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

Mike Wingeier (mikew@netlink.nix.com) writes:

> Fortunately, DES isn't as hard as it would seem.  The FBI has the 
> backdoor to it, and that is why RSA is around, and also the reason that 
> its author is being charged with Treason: he didn't give them a back door
> to it.  DES is outdated now.

When you post uninformed nonsense, you are running the risk of being
flamed. In particular:

1) DES is still hard enough. The only practical attack is brute force
and according to the latest estimations, you need at least about a
million bucks to build a reasonably fast hardware DES cracker.

2) The -rumor- is that the NSA has a backdoor to DES, not the FBI.

3) It is nothing more than an unfounded rumor - the latest research
has demonstrated that NSA has actually strengthen the cypher (i.e.,
DES is more secure than Lucifer - the original proposal) and that DES
is about as strong as a cypher with a 56-bit key can ever be. However,
it is also assumed that NSA does have some expensive hardware crackers
as the one mentioned above, and that they can break it, if they really
have to. But this is an expensive operation and they certainly don't
like to do it often. And all this is valid for single DES; the
variation called tripple DES is assumed secure enough.

4) RSA is not around because DES is flawed, it is around because it
provides a much more convenient approach - the ability to transfer the
encryption keys via an insecure channel.

5) It's not the "author" of RSA, but the "authorS" - there are three
of them: Rivest, Shamir, and Adelman.

6) The authors of RSA have not been charged with anything; they have a
company that sells licenses to their pattented encryption method (and
thus stops the free distribution of strong public key crypto, but
that's another story). You are probably confusing them with Phil
Zimmermann.

7) Phil Zimmermann is not the author of RSA, he has just implemented
the RSA algorithm in a wonderful program and has made it available to
the world for free, so that anybody can enjoy strong public key
cryptography and authentication. The program is called PGP and is
available from many ftp sites and BBSes across the world.

8) Even Phil Zimmermann has not been charged with anything yet, let
alone with Treason. He is just been investigated by the Customs.

9) The reason of the investigation is not because he has refused to
put a backdoor in his program, but because it has been exported
outside the USA. The US goverment doesn't want strong crypto software
to be exported outside the country.

10) DES is still not outdated - it is used daily by the banks around
the world to transfer electronically trillions of dollars.

Hmm, there doesn't seem to be even one correct thing in your message.
I tend to call such messages "utter nonsense".

Regards,
Vesselin
--
Vesselin Vladimirov Bontchev          Virus Test Center, University of Hamburg
Tel.:+49-40-54715-224, Fax: +49-40-54715-226      Fachbereich Informatik - AGN
< PGP 2.3 public key available on request. > Vogt-Koelln-Strasse 30, rm. 107 C
e-mail: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de        22527 Hamburg, Germany
