Path: msuinfo!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!newshub.nosc.mil!nosc!ryptyde!mikew
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Neural Network approach??
From: mikew@netlink.nix.com (Mike Wingeier)
Reply-To: mikew@netlink.nix.com
Message-ID: <caq9Bc6w165w@netlink.nix.com>
References: <2aqnh4$1pd@rzsun02.rrz.uni-hamburg.de>
Date: Sat, 30 Oct 93 08:59:47 PDT
Organization: NIX - The Network Information eXchange, San Diego CA
Lines: 36

Due to the extreme amount of quoting the post would have generated, I 
have elected not to quote it.  Those who dispute with me will know what 
it said anyhow.

First, I don't care if I'm flamed, people get flamed all the time for 
things, and it only shows how immature the, if you'll pardon the phrase, 
flamers, are.

I'll admit, I did make a mistake in referring to the author of RSA, I was 
not talking about them, I was referring to Zimmerman, the PGP author.

I also never said he was CHARGED with treason, I said they were thinking 
about it.  They are considering the evidence against him for such a 
charge.

I also happen to know about the US export laws reguarding technology of 
this type, and I am _not_ confusing this with the backdoor arguement, the 
three letter agencies can't do anything to Zimmerman for importing the 
program, so saying that's why he's being investigated is rediculous.

Finally, just because DES is in use does not mean that it is the best out 
there, and unbreakable.  You stated yourself, if is used by banks and 
other major institutions around the world.  Number one, those being 
federal, or at least state, institutions, DES is the program of choice, 
since it is endorsed by the government.  Secondly, look at languages like 
COBOL.  It's not the best, but it's still out there in daily use by those 
same banks in more than several cases.  Does that mean we should stick 
with it as a superior programming language?  No.  The reason they stick 
with it, and DES, although the aforementioned endorsement is a "plus" for 
DES, is money.  It takes lots of money to convert from one thing to 
another across the board, and most places are not willing to invest.

--                    
INTERNET:  mikew@netlink.nix.com (Mike Wingeier)
UUCP:   ...!ryptyde!netlink!mikew
Network Information eXchange * Public Access in San Diego, CA (619) 453-1115
