Path: msuinfo!caen!sdd.hp.com!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!ames!agate!ocf.berkeley.edu!stoll
From: stoll@ocf.berkeley.edu (Cliff Stoll)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: A sad footnote to cryptanalysis of 30 years ago
Date: 4 Jun 1992 19:14:01 GMT
Organization: U. C. Berkeley Open Computing Facility
Lines: 47
Message-ID: <10lq1pINNpum@agate.berkeley.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: headcrash.berkeley.edu

 75 year old American defector has been found in a 
 psychiatric prison near Moscow where he was kept for the past 
 21 years.

 Victor Hamilton, a former code analyst for the National 
 Security Agency, apparently suffers from paranoia and other 
 mental problems, and has refused most treatment.  

 He defected in 1962 and is free to return to the USA if his 
 family claims him.

 "He's a 75 year old man who is mentally disturbed," said his 
 wife, who lives in Union City, GA.  "We do not want him to 
 have to face charges and a trial."  She said she had last 
 heard from her husband in 1973.

 Mr. Hamilton's family said he was dismissed from the NSA in 
 1959 for psychiatric reasons and was showing symptoms of 
 mental illness when he defected.

(Extracted & Paraphrased from Associated Press: June 3, 1992)

Extracted & paraphrased from James Bamford's book, The Puzzle 
Palace pg 201-202:

 From 1957 - 1959, Hamilton worked at NSA's ALLO (All Other 
 Countries) division, which according to Hamilton, "Concerns 
 itself with Egypt, Syria, Iraq, Lebanon, Jordan, Saudi 
 Arabia, Yemen, Libya, Morocco, Tunisia, Turkey, Iran, Greece, 
 and Ethiopia."

 Izvestia quoted him:

 "...My colleagues studied and broke military ciphers of these 
 countries, and also the deciphering of correspondence 
 reaching their diplomatic representatives.  For example, I 
 had in my desk the deciphered communications between Cairo 
 and the Egyptian embassy in Moscow relating to a petroleum 
 purchase."

 Bamford writes:

 In 1959, NSA pronounced him 'mentally ill' but retined him 
 because of his superior proficiency in Arabic.  Four months 
 later, it regretted that decision and Hamilton, "approaching 
 a paranoid-schizophrenic break," was forced to resign.

