Path: msuinfo!caen!sdd.hp.com!swrinde!gatech!news.byu.edu!eff!usenet
From: Banisar@washofc.cpsr.org (David A. Banisar)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: CPSR Cryptography and Privacy Conference News
Message-ID: <1992Jun7.134033.10627@eff.org>
Date: 7 Jun 92 13:40:33 GMT
Sender: usenet@eff.org (NNTP News Poster)
Organization: Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility
Lines: 67
Nntp-Posting-Host: t-roosevelt.eff.org
X-Useragent: Nuntius v1.1a2

From Newsbytes - with permission

From: newsbytes@clarinet.com
Newsgroups: clari.nb.govt
Subject: CPSR: Can Planned FBI Law Cancel Call Forwarding? 06/04/92

WASHINGTON, D.C., U.S.A., 1992 JUN 4 (NB) -- NYNEX Legislative 
Counsel Jeffrey W. Ward, speaking at the Computer Professionals for 
Social Responsibility (CPSR) Cryptography and Privacy Conference, 
speculates that the proposed digital telephony legislation could 
possibly mean the end of such telephone features as call forwarding.

Ward, participating on the panel "Electronic Surveillance and the 
Digital Telephony Proposal," with Assistant FBI Director William A. 
"Al" Bayse, Janlori Goldman of the ACLU, George Washington 
University professor Lance Hoffman, and John Podestra, representing 
the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), said that the legislation, if 
enacted in its present format, will allow the Justice Department to 
require the withdrawal of any telecommunications technology that 
impedes the government in carrying out court-ordered wiretaps. Ward 
said that the call-forwarding feature, which in its 27 years of existence 
has posed difficulties for law enforcement officials, could easily fall
into 
this category.

At the conclusion of the panel discussion, Newsbytes interviewed FBI 
Special Assistant/Legal Alan McDonald, credited by Bayse as being "a 
prime drafter of the proposal," as to the accuracy of Ward's contention. 
McDonald said: "There is no desire on the part of the government to 
cause the withdrawal of any technology or 'dumb down' and advances in 
technology. We are saying that we want to deal the new technology in a 
manner that allows us to maintain our present capability to carry out 
court-ordered search warrants. For every new feature, there must be an 
intelligent solution to the problem."

Ward, also speaking to Newsbytes, disagreed with McDonald's 
statement, saying: "The legislation specifically says that 
telecommunications carriers must remove any impediments within 
18 months or face fines. Computer companies and others covered 
by the legislation will have three years to comply. If it is too 
expensive for features to be brought into compliance, they will be 
withdrawn."

John Podesta of Podesta and Associates, representing EFF at the 
conference, told Newsbytes that "the legislation is broad enough to 
force phone companies to stop offering call forwarding and other 
switch-based services but I don't think that the FBI would try to 
prohibit these features. What they are looking for is 'switch-based' 
solutions which would permit the switch to forward the number first 
to a line which could be tapped and then forwarded to the final 
destination." 

(Barbara E. McMullen & John F. McMullen/19920602/Press Contact:
David Banisar, Computer Professionals For Social Responsibility, 
202-544-9240 (voice); banisar@washofc.cpsr.org -- e-mail)








David Banisar <> Banisar@washofc.cpsr.org
Computer Professionals for Social Responsiblity
666 Pennsylvania Ave, SE, #303  Washington, D.C. 20003
Voice  - (202) 544-9240  <> Fax  - (202) 547- 5481
