Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!sdd.hp.com!usc!snorkelwacker.mit.edu!linus!linus.mitre.org!news
From: hal@gateway.mitre.org (Hal Feinstein)
Subject: Internationally acceptable Algorithm Advice
Message-ID: <1992Jun11.132502.15582@linus.mitre.org>
Sender: news@linus.mitre.org (News Service)
Nntp-Posting-Host: venus.mitre.org
Organization: Malox Corp, Vienna, Va.
Date: Thu, 11 Jun 1992 13:25:02 GMT
Lines: 27



 I need some advice on what I could use for an authentication algorithm
 suitable for international export that is "respectable" strength.
 Two networks that I'm working on, one is VSAT based and the other
 conventional packet switching.  Both networks have a control logic thats
 distributed in the field and commanded through a channel normally provided
 through each network. There are a few needs: (1) I would like the end 
 products to be free of import/export problems such as those with DES
 in the USA. (2) The authentication algorithm is supposed to be implemented 
 in software and shares the processor with other things going on at the
 remote sites, therefore it must be highly efficient. (3) It does not need to 
 withstand exotic attacks since the threats environment  is mild. (4)
 One of the networks (VSAT) do not have to follow any of the international or 
 national standards while the other does.  This allows choices like
 simple rotors or even NIST's DSS (excepting for the efficiency problem) to 
 be considered. The packet network must follow international
 standards for interoperability but I can't figure out what that means
 for control authentication in a private network.  
 Who cares what authentication algorithm is being used if the 
 network administators saction it? Also looked at the products from RSA folks 
 and while impressive, the fees and computational requirements are 
 troubling. Otherwise its a good product.  Anyone find themselves considering
 the same or similar problems I'd sure be interested in what approaches 
 worked out.

                            -Hal.
