Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!mips!pacbell.com!pacbell!osc!jgk
From: jgk@osc.COM (Joe Keane)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Personal Identifiers - a practical application
Summary: Use sequence numbers.
Keywords: uniqueness
Message-ID: <5627@osc.COM>
Date: 17 Jun 92 05:46:29 GMT
References: <11fafmINNpnb@agate.berkeley.edu> <1992Jun15.031627.18049@cbnewsh.cb.att.com> <1992Jun15.045632.19448@unislc.uucp>
Distribution: na
Organization: Versant Object Technology, Menlo Park, CA
Lines: 28

I'm not sure why this is in this newsgroup, but i'll give it a shot.

The goal is to get a master key that can be used across many databases.  The
thing most people get wrong is that they try to do too much.  They want the
key to include some encoding of the person's name, class, department, or
whatever.  You can come up with some clever ways of doing this, but i'd say
that you don't want to.

All of this information can change; someone can change his class, go from
student to faculty, move to a different department, change his name (fairly
common with women), and so on.  This is sort of obvious but you have to
consider what happens in this case.  Either your constraint is no longer true,
that is it reflects some outdated information, or you have to go through all
the databases and renumber, which is often next to impossible.

I'd say, just use a sequence number.  The first person in the database is
number 1, and so on.  You never re-use a number.  If you have some fear of
small numbers then you can start at 1000 or whatever like they do with checks.
I know this sounds really boring, but it's the best way to do it.  About the
only way you can screw up is to not `recognize' someone and give him a new
number when really he already has one.  This is the thing you should really be
concentrating on, and it's not just part of the database.  After all, two
people can have the same name, you need some other way to tell if you've got
the same person or not.

--
Joe Keane, amateur mathematician
jgk@osc.com (uunet!amdcad!osc!jgk)
