Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!mcsun!uknet!cam-cl!cam-cl!rja14
From: rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (Ross Anderson)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Sending encrypted data across international boundaries
Message-ID: <1992Jun21.172752.22328@cl.cam.ac.uk>
Date: 21 Jun 92 17:27:52 GMT
References: <Bq2KwK.z7@world.std.com> <1992Jun19.204833.18839@linus.mitre.org>
Sender: news@cl.cam.ac.uk (The news facility)
Reply-To: rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (Ross Anderson)
Organization: U of Cambridge Computer Lab, UK
Lines: 54

In <1992Jun19.204833.18839@linus.mitre.org>, hal@venus.mitre.org (Hal 
Feinstein) writes:

>                                                         Another rumor was
> that some contries required you to register with the PTT and yet other
> required your key. I'd appreciate anyone verifying or shooting down these
> rumors.

One old colleague of mine works for a software house which sells systems 
for processing Mastercard transactions. These are used in a number of 
small countries to handle authorisation requests and settle with banks 
overseas.

It turns out that the Life President of Malawi won't even allow modems into
his country. It seems that the local secret police haven't yet figured out 
how to monitor V.22 traffic (let alone crack DES). As a result, whenever 
my colleague upgrades his software, someone has to get on a plane to Malawi
with some diskettes in his pocket (which customs don't understand anyway).

I have heard many reports of regulations against encryption in `otherwise 
developed' countries, particularly in Latin America, Africa and the Middle
East. These regulations, like many others, seem to be ignored by large 
operators who reason that legality in such countries is a matter of clout.

One other story for which I have reliable sources concerns South Africa in
the mid 80's. PW Botha amalgamated the various state organisations' cipher 
bureaux under army control and passed a regulation that civilians could only 
use crypto if they gave the army not only full details of the algorithms 
and protocols, but also copies of all keys in use.

The banks wrung their hands and sent a mission to the army in Pretoria to 
say `Look, we'll give you all keys for our automatic teller machines if 
you insist, but if you do, then we're going to send you the bill whenever 
one of them is out of balance'. Sudden silence from Pretoria brasshats, and 
an assurance that the banks could go on breaking the law and nothing would 
happen to them.

But then, is this any different from government attitudes and practices in 
America? My sources claim that IBM supplied its South African dealer ISM 
with crypto components via European subsidiaries during the years of 
sanctions, despite efforts by South African suppliers to get the US 
government to enforce its own laws in this matter. They even shipped SA 
technical personnel to the USA for training in ICRF, 4753 etc before these 
products were launched.

From my own experience, certain US suppliers were happy to bid for business
in a Hong Kong project I was involved in, even though some of the terminal
equipment would have ended up in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia (and for that
reason I had tried to find non-US suppliers or some way of splitting up the
crypto and systems components).

First cast forth the beam that is in thine own eye . . .

Ross
