Path: msuinfo!uchinews!ncar!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!usc!sdd.hp.com!hp-cv!ogicse!unmvax!cs.sandia.gov!efbrick
From: efbrick@cs.sandia.gov (Ernest F. Brickell)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Crypto'92 Program
Message-ID: <1992Jun24.201608.2656@cs.sandia.gov>
Date: 24 Jun 92 20:16:08 GMT
Article-I.D.: cs.1992Jun24.201608.2656
Sender: usenet@cs.sandia.gov (Another name for news)
Organization: Sandia National Laboratories, Albuquerque, NM
Lines: 103
Originator: efbrick@math.cs.sandia.gov

The list of accepted papers to Crypto'92.


Claude Carlet, "Partially-bent Functions"

Eli Biham, Adi Shamir, "Differential Cryptanalysis of the Full 16-round DES"

Keith W. Campbell,  Michael J. Wiener, "Strong Evidence that DES is not a 
Group"

Othmar Staffelbach,  Willi Meier, "Efficient Multiplication on Certain 
Nonsupersingular Elliptic Curves"

Lein Harn, Hung-Yu Lin, "An l-Span Generalized Secret Sharing Scheme"

Daniel M. Gordon, "Designing and Detecting Trapdoors for Discrete Log 
Cryptosystems"

Amir Herzberg, "Public Randomness in Cryptography"

D. R. Stinson, "New General Lower Bounds on the Information Rate
of Secret Sharing Schemes"

Jorgen Brandt, Ivan Damgard, "On Generation of Probable Primes by Incremental 
Search"

Rene Peralta,  "A Quadratic Sieve on the n-Dimensional Cube"

Mihir Bellare,  Oded Goldreich, "On Defining Proofs of Knowledge"

Silvio Micali, "Fair Public-Key Cryptosystems"

Rafail Ostrovsky, Shafi Goldwasser, "Non-Interactive Zero-Knowledge Proofs and 
Invariant Signatures are Equivalent"

Moti Young,  Moni Naor,  Rafail Ostrovsky,  Ramarathnam Venkatesan , "Perfect 
Zero-Knowledge Arguments for NP  Can be Based on General Complexity 
Assumptions"

Moti Yung,  Mihir Bellare, "Verifying Cryptographic Tools"

Moti Yung,  C. Blundo,  A. De Santis,  U. Vaccaro, A Herzberg,  S. Kutten,  
"Perfectly-Secure Key Distribution for Dynamic Conferences"

Kouichi Sakurai, Toshiya Itoh, "On the Discrepancy between Serial and Parallel 
of Zero-Knowledge Protocols"

Tatsuaki Okamoto,  Atsushi Fujioka,  Eiichiro Fujisaki, "An Efficient Digital 
Signature Scheme Based on an Elliptic Curve over the Ring Zn"

Taksuaki Okamoto, "Provably Secure and Practical Identification Schemes and 
Corresponding Signature Schemes" 

S. E. Tavares,  M. Sivabalan,  L. E. Peppard, "On the Design of SP Networks 
from an Information Theoretic Point of View"

Yuliang Zheng,  Jennifer Seberry, "Practical Approaches to Attaining Security 
Against Adaptively Chosen Ciphertext Attacks"

Kenji Koyama,  Yukio Tsuruoka, "Speeding Up Elliptic Cryptosystems by Using a 
Signed Binary Window Method"

Rafael Hirschfeld, "Making Electronic Refunds Safer"

Henri Gilbert,  Thierry Baritaud, Mireille Campana, "On the Security of the 
Permuted Kernel Identification Scheme"

Daniel M. Gordon,  Kevin S. McCurley, "Massively Parallel Computation of 
Discrete Logarithms"

Joe Kilian,  Cynthia Dwork,  Uri Feige, Moni Naor,  Muli Safra,  "Low 
Communication 2-Prover Zero-Knowledge Proofs for NP"

Alexander C. Russell, "Necessary and Sufficient Condition for Collision-Free 
Hashing"

Alfredo De Santis,  C. Blundo,  L. Gargano, U. Vaccaro, "On the Information 
Rate of Secret Sharing Schemes"

Yair Frankel,  Yvo Desmedt,  Mike Burmester, "Non-existence of Homomorphic 
General Sharing Schemes for Some Key Spaces"

Moni Naor,  Cynthia Dwork, "Pricing via Processing or Combating Junk Mail"

Hans Eberle, "A High-Speed DES Implementation for Network Applications"

David Chaum,  Jurjen Bos, "Provably Unforgeable Signatures"

Torben Pryds Pedersen,  David Chaum, "Wallet Databases with Observers"

Agnes Hui Chan,  Bob Blakley,  G. R. Blakley, James L. Massey, "Threshold 
Schemes with Disenrollment"

Ueli M. Maurer, "Protocols for Secret Key Agreement by Public Discussion Based 
on Common Information"

Birgit Pfitzmann,  Eugene van Heijst, Torben Pryds Pedersen,  "New 
Constructions of Fail-Stop Signatures and Lower Bounds"

Lars Ramkilde Knudsen, "Iterative Characteristics of DES and s^2 DES"

Benny Chor,  A. Walrus,  B. Carpenter, "Universally Ideal Secret Sharing 
Schemes"
