Path: msuinfo!caen!sdd.hp.com!mips!pacbell.com!hoptoad!gnu
From: gnu@hoptoad.uucp (John Gilmore)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Economist magazine on networking and cryptography
Message-ID: <31732@hoptoad.uucp>
Date: 28 Jun 92 04:47:14 GMT
Organization: Cygnus Support, Palo Alto
Lines: 33

_The Economist_, June 20th, 1992, p. 88, has an excellent overview of
computer networking for general audiences.  They had two paragraphs to
explain how crypto relates to network security and to explain the
politics around it.  I think they did a pretty good job:

"Security is an especially frustrating obstacle in the path to network
growth.  Techniques for so-called public key cryptography offer
relatively easy-to-use ways of creating nearly unbreakable codes to
protect data, and nearly unforgeable ``digital signatures'' to show
that a document purporting to come from John Hancock really does.  One
of the better public-key cryptograpy techniques has been patented by a
small Silicon Valley firm called RSA Data Security and licensed by a
host of computer companies such as Sun, Apple, Microsoft and DEC.  But
America's government, which could do much to establish the technology,
seems unwilling to endorse this technology -- or any other.

"The federal government has repeatedly delayed the choice of a
public-key cryptography system for its own use (which would create a de
facto national standard).  It also bans the export of most
data-security software and hardware -- which means that international
networks cannot use systems like RSA.  This may stop foreign
governments using American technology to put their communications
beyond the reach of American spies, but it also prevents multi-national
companies from using encryption to improve their data networks.
Meanwhile, at home, agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation
have been skulking about Congress trying to insert a ``right-to-tap''
amendment into various communications bills, which would ban criminals
from unbreakably encoding evidence of their malfeasance.  Where does
that leave the fifth amendment?"
-- 
John Gilmore   {sun,uunet,pyramid}!hoptoad!gnu   gnu@toad.com   gnu@cygnus.com
"It isn't given to us to know those rare moments when people
 are wide open and the lightest touch can wither or heal."
