Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:8474 comp.security.misc:580
Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!att!ucbvax!virtualnews.nyu.edu!brnstnd
From: brnstnd@nyu.edu (Dan Bernstein)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.security.misc
Subject: Details of current U.S. export law: cryptography/security software
Message-ID: <17933.Jun2915.46.1392@virtualnews.nyu.edu>
Date: 29 Jun 92 15:46:13 GMT
Organization: IR
Lines: 76

Most software exports are controlled by the Bureau of Export
Administration (BXA) in the Department of Commerce. Cryptographic
software is also controlled by the Office of Defense Trade Controls in
the State Department, as a war item.

How do BXA and DTC interact for cryptographic software? DTC wants to see
everything first. They give the NSA two months to review it and decide
whether it should be excepted from the Munitions List. In general it
appears that password systems and even hashing systems are excepted;
systems which can encrypt text usually aren't. If DTC decides that it
controls the software then everything's a real pain: you basically have
to know an address for every individual you're sending the software to.
If DTC decides that BXA controls the software then it sends you a letter
saying so. You have to send a copy of that letter to BXA or they won't
take a second glance at your requests.

Security software in general is controlled by BXA. In particular you
can't export the following items to anywhere except Canada without a
license: 1. (5A04A) ``Centralized network control'' which performs
``dynamic adaptive routing.'' This can be interpreted so as to cover
the Internet routing protocols. 2. (5D13A, 5A11A) Software which uses
`` `cryptography' employing digital techniques to ensure `information
security' .'' Also software which is designed or modified to ``suppress
the compromising emanations of information-bearing signals.'' This can
be interpreted so as to cover, e.g., any version of the ``login''
program which makes an effort to wipe out copies of passwords stored in
memory. 3. (5D13A) Software designed or modified ``to protect against
malicious computer damage, e.g., viruses.'' This can be interpreted so
as to cover, e.g., the fixes people sent around the network when RTM's
worm struck, as well as the vast majority of computer security software.

(The above restrictions are for national security. Because of foreign
policy there are even broader restrictions on what you can send to
Libya, Cuba, Iran, Syria, the South African military, et al. For
instance: 4. (5A94F) Software which accepts packets, buffers them,
processes some of them for control or transmission or multiplexing, and
finally retransmits them when possible. As far as I can tell this covers
practically everything down to the ``tee'' program!)

To cover the 99% of all exports which are entirely boring, the BXA has a
lot of different ``general licenses.'' For instance, if you send
something to a friend as a gift for his personal use (or his family's
use), you're covered by the GIFT license, and you don't have to talk to
BXA at all---but BXA will not look kindly upon you if you send things
every day to untold thousands of ``friends.''

The GTDA general license lets you export software under some very broad
conditions. It does appear possible to export DES under GTDA, for
instance, since many descriptions of DES are available to the public.
And GTDR lets you export even more types of software, though you might
have to send BXA written assurance that you're following the rules. And
the BXA has explicitly given up control over most types of smart cards,
password systems for access control, and hashing systems to protect
message authenticity.

BUT GTDA AND GTDR DON'T APPLY UNTIL THE STATE DEPARTMENT HAS GIVEN UP
CONTROL OF YOUR SOFTWARE TO THE COMMERCE DEPARTMENT. So although BXA
doesn't seem to care about (say) DES, DTC has the authority to say ``no,
that's on the munitions list, and we don't want you exporting it.'' In
fact it does not appear to be legal to export (say) the des program, or
RSAREF, or pgp, since they can all encrypt text and DTC doesn't like
that.

I hope this clears up some of the rumors flying around the net about
what can and can't be done under U.S. law (at least as of last August,
when the current laws came into effect). I wish I had come to a happier
conclusion but the situation for publishing cryptographic software looks
bleak. Even some non-cryptographic security software---for instance,
COPS without the password checker---appears to be controlled by BXA
rules and doesn't appear to fall under any of the general licenses.

To test out the system I've just begun the process of asking the DTC to
give up control of my snuffle 5.0 encryption package. I'll let y'all
know how it goes.

---Dan
