Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!anagld!decode!mt
From: Michael Theroux <uunet!anagld!decode!mt>
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Vox Populi
Message-ID: <JZ91gc1w165w@decode.UUCP>
Date: Mon, 31 Jan 94 14:50:54 EST
Organization: American Cryptogram Association
Lines: 45

Too often I have noticed on BBS systems and conference threads, the 
biases of the so-called "schools of thought" putrifying the waters 
of knowledge to the extent that they prevent us from going where the 
facts should lead us. These are in reality "schools of un-thought". 
This putrefaction has wrapped its dendritic sickness around the 
science of cryptology since the introduction of the computer's ability 
to perform "high math". Let us not forget, that this science is not a 
science of numbers, but one of words....symbols. Written language is 
cryptology in its purest sense. It follows no laws or rules as does 
the science of mathematics. It is creative and spontaneous. The ancient 
scribes with their acrostic-telestic inscriptions, anagrams, and 
bi-literal ciphers, to name a few, would wholly agree, and realized that 
the purest cipher was one that was not revealed as a cipher. The ancients
were as intelligent if not more so than we consider ourselves today, and
manipulated language so deftly that it often takes modern scholars a long
time to grasp the presence, let alone all the subtlteties, of ancient
riddles. These "steganographers" utilized their creative art to conceal 
the messages of their day.
        Today's "encryption" programs with all their lifeless algorithms 
are not engines of ingenuity, but they are merely simplistic number 
scramblers. As a writer of many such programs, I have found them to be
quite interesting, but nonetheless an adventure into a very limited and
somewhat non-creative avocation. They have their purpose, 
but as one member of the "school of un-thought" so aptly put it, 
"Steganography has nothing to do with the modern science of cryptology."
        A classic example is the detraction of Newbold's decipherment
of the Voynich Ms. The accepted notion -- that because Newbold's 
decipherment does not follow traditional processes of cryptanalysis, it 
is entirely bogus -- does not justify the claims of the so-called 
authorities. Newbold understood the ancient scribe, an even though he 
was also a brilliant cryptanalyst, he never let that get in the way of 
creative and innovative thought. I understand, of course, that putting
forth such statements here will probably award me with hate mail, and 
endless flaming and bashing, but in the words of Cyrus H. Gordon, 
"The intelligent reader will judge for himself. Without examining the 
facts fully and fairly, there is no way of knowing whether vox populi 
is really vox dei, or merely vox asinorum."
 
Michael Theroux
Borderlands BBS
707-826-1124

--
mt@decode.UUCP (Michael Theroux)
Cryptography, Security, Privacy BBS  +1 410 730 6734   Data/FAX
