Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!rand.org!jim
From: jim@rand.org (Jim Gillogly)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Vox Populi
Date: 3 Feb 1994 19:54:30 GMT
Organization: Banzai Institute
Lines: 52
Message-ID: <2irkpm$suc@rand.org>
References: <JZ91gc1w165w@decode.uucp>
NNTP-Posting-Host: mycroft.rand.org

In article <JZ91gc1w165w@decode.uucp>,
Michael Theroux  <uunet!anagld!decode!mt> wrote sententiously:
>        A classic example is the detraction of Newbold's decipherment
>of the Voynich Ms. The accepted notion -- that because Newbold's 
>decipherment does not follow traditional processes of cryptanalysis, it 
>is entirely bogus -- does not justify the claims of the so-called 
>authorities. Newbold understood the ancient scribe, an even though he 
>was also a brilliant cryptanalyst, he never let that get in the way of 
>creative and innovative thought. I understand, of course, that putting
>forth such statements here will probably award me with hate mail, and 
>endless flaming and bashing, but in the words of Cyrus H. Gordon, 

Taking the last sentence first, I assume you won't get endless flaming and
hate mail because few people actually -have- Newbold's book about his stab
at the Voynich Ms.  The Ludwig-Plutonium-like buildup to this paragraph is
a bit off-putting, but that's life... we can deal with Newbold first and
get to the ad hominem stuff later.

The problem with Newbold isn't <just> that he didn't follow traditional
processes of cryptanalysis, but that he didn't offer any credible process
for encryption and decryption.  The distinction as I see it is this: if
you can leap to the solution of a cryptogram by intuitive means rather
than by careful analysis, that's perfectly fine.  However, once there you
must be able to show how the cryptogram produces that solution: in short,
an algorithm for transforming your intuited plaintext into the given
ciphertext.

Newbold's "solution", after the business of detecting miniscule shorthand
symbols in the Voynich characters (many of which can be seen to be
blobbing of the ink on the rough paper rather than actual symbols), is
merely anagramming the text in blocks of 60 (is it?) or so letters...
and rather than using the entire block of letters, he would carry the
left-overs after his anagrammed text into the next block to be anagrammed.

This does not provide any kind of credible encryption method by the writer
of the manuscript, and does not explain any of the oddities and
regularities of the text itself if read as characters rather than
shorthand symbols.  An anagram that size can produce nearly any desired
text, and even with "creative and innovative thought" Newbold could not
have gotten the right answer unless he was channeling the spirit of the
writer... and conversation with angels was no longer in the mainstream of
scientific thought by the early 20th century, despite the rise in
spiritualism.

Since you view Newbold's attempt as definitive, you view the Voynich as an
actual manuscript by the 12th century monk Roger Bacon, right?  I've
always wanted somebody to test the age of the paper...  I seriously doubt
that Edward Kelley would have gone to the trouble of finding a large stack
of 12th century paper for his magnum opus.
-- 
	Jim Gillogly
	13 Solmath S.R. 1994, 21:45
