Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!torn!falcon.ccs.uwo.ca!cogsci.uwo.ca!mckeever
From: mckeever@cogsci.uwo.ca (Paul McKeever)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper
Subject: Re: Notes on key escrow meeting with NSA
Date: 3 Feb 1994 16:31:09 GMT
Organization: University of Western Ontario, London, Ont. Canada
Lines: 85
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <2ir8sd$riu@falcon.ccs.uwo.ca>
References: <mab.760222975@merckx> <CKMvGt.G06@world.std.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: cogsci.uwo.ca
Cc: 
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:23406 talk.politics.crypto:2483 comp.org.eff.talk:25835 alt.privacy.clipper:2100

Re: the NSA working "very hard" to get Clipper/Capstone into as many
products as possible: YOU'RE MISSING THE POINT OF THEIR EXERCISE.

Wide distribution is not as stupid as it seems: it's not meant ONLY
to catch "stupid criminals".  RATHER: it is the psychology that is
being paid for.

Specifically, Joe Lotech is going to push the "private" button on
his telephone whenever he's using, say, his cellular phone (in fact,
privacy mode will probably be the default, and Joe Lotech will
know it).  Essentially, the omnipresence of government-designed
encryption will create a false sense of security among the masses.
"Hey!  I don't have to worry about snoopy people listening in on
my cellular phone calls anymore...Cool!".

When Joe Lotech is confronted by a little lab dweeb named Johnny
Nofool, Johnny will say to Joe: "Hey, you know, that privacy mode
doesn't prevent the police from listening in on your conversation"
Joe Lotech will reply "Ah!  You're paranoid man!  Besides, I'm
sure that the cops don't give a **** if I tell my girl that I
want to have sex with her tonight!  Get real!  Relax!  When
was the last time the cops arrested YOU for talking on the phone?!
You're paranoid man."  Johnny Nofool replies: "No really, listen.
There are all kinds of reasons that you should not rely on the
privacy imparted to your phone conversations via the government's
chip.  For example, what about industrial espionage...it's not
overly hard for a government key to get into the wrong hands
you know!  Or what if you are a member of some political party
that the government is trying to eliminate...hi-tech McCarthyism
can recur you know."  Joe Lotech: "Look man.  I'm a Republican.
And I don't communicate any ideas that big business would like
to steal: I work at GM for *****'s sake!  Geez...I think you
need to get laid, or take a vacation, or something man!  AND
BESIDES, this privacy gizmo came with the phone, it's cheap, 
it does the job for me, and parts are available if it breaks
down...I think this gizmo will do me just fine.  See ya."

This conversation (or something like it) WILL occur.  You watch.

Government will make a lot of hoopla in the papers about how
cellular phones and faxes etc. are listened to all of the time.
Donohue will have testimonials of nimrods whose marriage broke
up when their wife overheard them talking to a mistress by listening
in with her scanner, etc., etc..  Then, you'll see Clinton or
Gore strutting out on the news within weeks thereafter to announce
how they are bringin the USA into the 21st century with "super
chips" or some such nonsense that will both protect American
privacy, and allow government to "crack down on crime" (part of
the crime bill? an amendment?).  Clipper will proliferate, and
will me as common as pushbuttons on telephones etc..  THE PEOPLE
WILL BE HAPPY AND SATISFIED.

In their satisfied state, the people will, in fact APPLAUD, a
move to crack down on evil criminals who are using "military"
encryption to undermine American peace, and spread terrorism.
It will be a CAKEWALK to pass the FBI's proposed Digital Telephony
Act.  Government-proof encryption will be illegal, and the penalties
for possession or use will be steep.  Other countries will follow
suit (Canada first).  The dream of perfect privacy and truly-free
communication will be dead.

These talks may be good, but I doubt much progress will come of them
(I'm referring to these talks with the NSA and FBI).  These agencies
have GENUINE concerns about criminality and national security.  I
think the real solution is going to have to come from private industry.
The private sector must make people aware of the difference between
government-proof and government-prone encryption.  But it must also
help the NSA and FBI to overcome the very real problems associated
with wide-spread, legal, government-proof encryption.  Everyone
needs to get thinking on an alternative to government-prone encryption, 
and to start educating the public before they think Clipper and Capstone
are good enough, and to start thinking of ways to prevent strong
encryption from being used for criminal purposes (perhaps the latter
is not possible?).


Just my two cents.



-- 
Paul
====
My opinions are my own and are not intended to represent the 
opinions of people or organizations that disagree with me.
