Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!uunet!anagld!decode!mt
From: Michael Theroux <uunet!anagld!decode!mt>
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Vox Populi
Message-ID: <JVi9gc1w165w@decode.UUCP>
Date: Fri, 04 Feb 94 13:07:42 EST
References: <2irkpm$suc@rand.org>
Organization: American Cryptogram Association
Lines: 67


>Newbold's "solution", after the business of detecting miniscule 
>shorthand symbols in the Voynich characters (many of which can be 
>seen to be blobbing of the ink on the rough paper rather than 
>actual symbols), is

With all cabbalistic associations aside, Newbold discovered 22
distinct symbols, among these 22 were recognized the 15 signs that
composed the Greek system of shorthand. Bacon was quite familiar with
this Greek system, having written a grammar including such information.
The other 7 signs of the discovery all fit the same general character
of the first 15, and were used by Bacon to fill out the Greek shorthand, 
which was lacking expression.
	The criticism that the ink had merely broken up into spots and
shadings due to age was unfounded due to the fact that even documents
nowhere near as aged as the Voynich MS with comparable ink, do not 
display similar cracking. Also, if the arrangement of characters was 
due to this breaking up of the ink, certainly more than 22 individual
shorthand symbols would have been discovered.

>merely anagramming the text in blocks of 60 (is it?) or so letters...
>and rather than using the entire block of letters, he would carry the
>left-overs after his anagrammed text into the next block to be 
>anagrammed.

The process of annagramming texts was probably the most popular method
of the day used for concealing unpropicious messages, and the fact that 
it was a tradition among the "orders" can be witnessed in the works of 
von Bingen, and certainly in the Abbe N. De Montfaucon De Villars' 
"Comte De Gabalis" (Quod tanto impendio absconditur etiam solummodo 
demonstrare destruere est). It was even continued with the likes of 
Galileo (Haec immatura a me jam frustra leguntur - oy) Brahe, Kepler, 
and many others.
	Newbold's annagramming process did NOT use "blocks of 60" 
characters, on the contrary, it can be shown from his own notes that
he was very careful in his observations:

	"The only indication that the recomposition is correct is the
	 regular appearance, at intervals of NOT more than three or
	 four words, of letter groups suggesting words appropriate, in
	 syntax and logic, to the preceeding text. If they fail to 
	 appear, if one is driven to arbitrary choice in order to make 
	 sense, the recomposition is probably WRONG."   (emphasis mine)

I have observed this misrepresentation of facts of Newbold's decipherment
in a number of works (Kahn immediately comes to mind) and find it
quite an admonition to any other statements made by such authors. The
fact that his detractors used such methods to annagram texts into any
messages they seemed fit, is clearly disinformation. Newbold, by HIS 
method, equally tried other texts of the period including works of
Bacon which were not meant to be in cipher, and while he could form Latin 
words for a time, he was soon left with unmanageable groups of consonants,
and discontinued the experiment, as Latin requires between 40 and 50 
percent vowels.
      This is only a brief explanation -- I am currently engaged in a work
fully detailing Newbold's decipherment. I possess a large volume of
resources on the subject including personal correspondence of Newbold's
and should be able to wrap up the project within weeks.

MDMP

Michael Theroux


--
mt@decode.UUCP (Michael Theroux)
Cryptography, Security, Privacy BBS  +1 410 730 6734   Data/FAX
