Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!nwnexus!akriger
From: akriger@halcyon.com (Andrew G. Kriger)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto
Subject: In the News
Date: 5 Feb 1994 21:27:34 -0800
Organization: "A World of Information at your Fingertips"
Lines: 68
Sender: news@nwfocus.wa.com
Message-ID: <2j1v46$3d8@nwfocus.wa.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: nwfocus.wa.com
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:23486 talk.politics.crypto:2556


i don't know if these items have been mentioned by anyone, but i did
notice these two occurances of encryption appear in the news and figured
i make the info avaliable:

	From "Computer bulletin board is neo-Nazis' backbone" 
	by Frank Bajak - AP - 2/2/94
	[most of article deleted which talks about how neo-Nazis in
	Germany are using BBSs to distribute information, getting around
	"police unfamiliar with the new computer technology."]
		"The Resistance [an example BBS mentioned earlier in the 
	article] operator, reportedly a Nuremberg computer-science student, 
	has introduced into a private message area an encryption program
	called Pretty Good Privacy that ensures electronic mail
	confidentiality.
		"The program is so airtight that U.S. authorities are
	investigating its Colorado author for possible export law
	violations because he sent it out publicly onto the Internet
	worldwide computer network.
		"Such encryption programs are considered weapons under
	U.S. law.
		"So, does that make them exlosives in the hands of
	neo-Nazis?"

The tone taken at the end of this article concerns me.  IMHO this appears
to be a general misrepresentaion of the PGP situation with some accurate facts
(e.g. the line of encryption programs considered weapons) that are stated
in such a way as to be misinterpreted.  The general public (who does not
closely follow cryptography discussions) could buy this anti-cryptography
tone hook, line and sinker.  IMHO.

	
	"Feds to get decoding keys"
	No byline - AP - 2/5/94
	"WASHINGTON - Electronic keys that unlock scambled telephone and
	computer signals are being placed in the hands of two federal 
	agencies, the government announced yesterday.
		"The decision allows law-enforcement officials to maintain
	wiretaps.
		"Attorney General Janet Reno said the keys to the technology -
	known as Key Escrow Encryption - will be help by the Commerce
	Department's National Institute of Standards and the Automated
	Systems Division of the Department of the Treasury.
		"While it is a voluntary system, avaliable to people who
	need to encode messages, its high security is expected to attract
	customers.  The scrambling technology would be included in phones
	and computers by their manufacturers.
		"Procedures for scrambling this material are so sophisticated 
	that without a key system like that being instituted, the government
	would be unable to break the codes and read or hear these messages -
	a problem causing great concern among crime-fighters.
		"Reno stressed that the keys will be used only for
	lawfully authorized wiretaps and that strict procedures are being 
	set up to guard the keys.
		"When a wiretap is required, written request will have to
	be sent to both agencies certifying that the wiretap has been 
	legally approved."

I assume this is the Clipper Chip.  Does anyone have more info on the 
current developments here?

BTW, both articles were found in the Seattle Times.


-- 
Andrew Kriger		 There exists no separation between gods and men;
akriger@halcyon.com	 one blends softly casual into the other. 
							 -- Frank Herbert
