Path: msuinfo!harbinger.cc.monash.edu.au!bruce.cs.monash.edu.au!merlin!mel.dit.csiro.au!its.csiro.au!dmssyd.syd.dms.CSIRO.AU!metro!ultima!acacia!mgream
From: M.Gream@uts.edu.au (Matthew Gream)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto,comp.security.misc
Subject: ITAR and COCOM regulations and dependancies
Followup-To: talk.politics.crypto
Date: 3 Feb 1994 06:39:28 GMT
Organization: University of Technology, Sydney.
Lines: 85
Message-ID: <2iq670$btn@lucy.socs.uts.EDU.AU>
NNTP-Posting-Host: acacia.socs.uts.edu.au
Keywords: COCOM ITAR
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:23492 talk.politics.crypto:2566 comp.security.misc:7658


I've just been looking at some information I received from the Australian
Defence Department pertaining to export (and some import) restrictions on
cryptographic equipment. This comes under our Customs Act of 1901, which
was amended in 1987 due to Australias adherence to the COCOM (the Co-
ordinating Committee for Multilateral Strategic Export Controls) agreements.

In terms of cryptographic equipment, we're looking at a Dual Use Technology 
(DUT) on the so called Industrial List, Category 5 - "Telecommunications
and 'Information Security'" [If there is interest, I can transcript the
relevant aspects of this document]. There are escape clauses, as are in
the ITAR, for software that is 'in the public domain' [which is by the
Definition of Terms -- 'As it applies to the Industrial List, means 
"technology" or "software" which has been made available without restrictions
upon its further dissemination'], and there is another interesting point
(the emphasis is from the document, by virtue of underlined bold):

    __GENERAL SOFTWARE NOTE__

    The Industrial List does not control "software" which is either:

    1. Generally available to the public by being:

       a. Sold from stock at retail selling points, without restriction,
	  by means of:
          1. Over-the-counter transcations;
	  2. Mail order transactions; _or_
	  3. Telephone call transactions; _and_

       b. Designed for installation by the user without further substantial
	  support by the supplier; or

    2. "In the public domain".

As per recent discussions, it seems as if there is a plausible way by
which cryptographic hooks in software could be deemed as being controlled
by this list, under:

5.D.2. a. 'Software' specifically designed or modified for the 'development',
	  'production' or 'use' of equipment embargoed by 5.A.2.,5.B.2 or 
	  5.D.2.

where these three references refer to clauses covering "cryptography",
"information security" and so on [again, I will transcript if there is
interest]. Remember, this is Australias interpretation, but I'd surmise 
it was taken word for word from the defining COCOM papers.

Anyway, my logical conclusion is that as this is Australias method of 
adherence to the COCOM agreements, then ITAR is the method by which the
United States maintains the same adherence. Similarily, every other
COCOM member country would have similar legisation. There is even an
informal chapter in here stating (my emphasis added):

	The inclusion of goods in these lists does not necessarily
	mean a complete prohibition on their export, even to COCOM-
	proscribed countries, but it does mean that you require a
	permit or licence before exporting them to *ANY* country.

What this means, as far as I can tell, is that in terms of the recent push
to liberalise cryptographic export controls in the US, there are aspects
larger than an internal US policy change. What we are looking at is altering
an international agreement, something a lot more difficult (logistically
and psychologically) for the flatheads in power.

Does this mean that for the US Senate to remove current export controls,
or at least water them down, it would require prior consent and agreement
at COCOM ? Of course, removing the ITAR restriction so that export to
COCOM member countries could be achieved easily, but it's that *ANY*
country thing up above that has me, is that part of the COCOM agreement
or what ? Anyway it seems to add a new slant on the debate, which has only 
ever been considered as a purely US policy change only. 

Incidently even though COCOM is apparently an 'informal' and 'non-treaty' 
part of NATO, I can't see the US wanting to relax, or attempt to relax,
any agreements in this area for political [read: it's image and stance
on defence afairs of this nature] reasons. Ain't US external policy grand ...
NOT! :-).


Comments ?

Matthew.
--
Matthew Gream, ph: (02)-821-2043
	M.Gream@uts.edu.au.
