Path: msuinfo!uchinews!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!spool.mu.edu!olivea!grapevine.lcs.mit.edu!PIRANHA.LCS.MIT.EDU!douzzer
From: douzzer@PIRANHA.LCS.MIT.EDU (Daniel G. Pouzzner)
Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,sci.crypt,misc.legal.computing
Subject: ITAR: a survey proposal
Followup-To: talk.politics.crypto
Date: 9 Feb 1994 01:46:11 GMT
Organization: gaia
Lines: 96
Message-ID: <2j9f93$cqe@GRAPEVINE.LCS.MIT.EDU>
NNTP-Posting-Host: piranha.lcs.mit.edu
Xref: msuinfo talk.politics.crypto:2685 sci.crypt:23592 misc.legal.computing:6507


this is a survey proposal (read on :-)

for quite a while, i've been hearing the pitter-patter of citizen
outrage about the prospect of clipper and clipper-like technologies
becoming de facto standards, and the more obscure but still very
important complaints about the ridiculous annoyance and inconvenience
of ITAR for those of us who are, in fact, developing cryptographically
oriented software or hardware.

in my mail to the EFF petition, i said (rather drily):

>the ITAR/COCOM provisions regarding export of cryptographically
>oriented hardware and software is antiquated and provides absolutely
>no practical protections or benefits for the governments that enforce
>them. strong encryption methods are known and available in fully
>operational form throughout the world: preventing their export results
>only in inconvenience and a reduction of revenues for american
>corporations, and does not in the least reduce the availability of
>strong encryption technologies overseas.

[if memory serves, ITAR is the US method of complying with the COCOM
 international agreement on commerce in cryptography as applied to
 communications. COCOM is, in the end, the target of efforts such as
 HR 3627]


here is the proposal: compile a list of nations and the present
cryptographic capabilities of each nation's citizenry. how? answer
questions like the following (all but the first are yes/no/maybe
questions, the first is usually one very easy word:-). why? to show
the american administration (clinton et al) and the american public
that current and planned policy regarding cryptosystem commerce and
use is silly.  this survey is a _complement_ to the EFF's HR 3627 and
the CSRG's clipper.petition projects in that, whereas only americans
could respond to the latter two calls for support, this survey is
explicitly directed toward non-americans, particularly those in the
"hot spot" countries currently serving as the "justification" for the
ITAR.


__Provisional Survey of International Cryptosystem Availability__

1) where are you from? (simply the name of your country)

2) do you presently have software in source code form that, when
   compiled, performs RSA encryption and decryption with prime moduli
   longer than 600 bits?

3a-b) a) do you have software in source code form that, when compiled,
   performs DES encryption and decryption? b) have you made the
   obvious extensions to perform "triple-DES" encryption and
   decryption? 

4a-e) a) have you made, b) do you make, and/or c) would you be willing
   to make this cryptographic software available to others in your own
   country? d) to others worldwide? e) do you have the requisite
   resources to do this, i.e. a network connection or a BBS with at
   least one dedicated phone line? 

5a-c) do the laws of your nation restrict the a) import, b) use, or c)
   export of cryptographic software?

6a-c) is your understanding of the mathematics of cryptography
   sufficient to allow you to create a) your own implementation of
   RSA, b) other robust public key cryptosystems, and/or c) other
   robust symmetric key cryptosystems?

7) do you give the survey taker permission to cite your name and email
   address in documents that are made generally available?


all of these questions are, of course, on an "answer to the best of
your ability" basis. it seems to me anonymous submissions should be
accepted. as an afterthought, i can provide versions of this survey
written in french and (somehow transliterated) russian to perhaps
slightly broaden the candidate respondent base.

if you give me a positive reaction to this idea, i will set up a
mailbox to accept completed surveys, and compile a summary of the
results after a pre-announced "closing" date. the summary itself would
contain, at most, only the responses to the above questions (no
distinction between anonymous and non-anonymous submissions would be
visible in the summary). this summary would be posted here, and would
be forwarded to the EFF and other concerned organizations (who have
an infrastructure i lack to bring issues to the attention of
lawmakers). question 7 in the survey addresses the issues of
accountability that organizations and lawmakers may raise.

let me know what you think, here or via email.

-- 
-daniel	(douzzer@athena.mit.edu)  i've been here and i've been there and
 key  0B 99 0D 4F E8 55 9A 95     i've been inbetween. i talk to the wind,
print 43 C1 7F B5 DF 8F E3 33     my words are all carried away.
key: finger douzzer@ai.mit.edu    the wind cannot hear.
