Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!spool.mu.edu!news.cs.indiana.edu!qwerty@netcom.com
From: qwerty-remailer@netcom.com
Subject: Re: secure anonymous remailer
Message-ID: <199402111905.LAA05973@mail.netcom.com>
Sender: root@news.cs.indiana.edu (Operator)
Organization: Computer Science, Indiana University
Date: Fri, 11 Feb 1994 11:05:11 -0800
Remailed-By: Qwerty Remailer <qwerty@netcom.com>
Comments: This is anonymous mail. Report problems to qwerty@netcom.com.
Lines: 35

Chris Green asked,
"        Given a strong public key crypto method, such as RSA, and given
a set of messages in encypted form, and a set of messages in plaintext,
is it any easier to figure out which plaintext corresponds to which
encypted stream? Are there shortcuts which would be much easier than
"cracking" the encryption?"

This is a sideways answer, but this IS about remailers. Sendmail logs
will match your incoming address to what went out of the remailer, if
that remailer site keeps sendmail logs, which most DO, and it doesn't
batch incoming mail and then send it out in random order, which FEW
do. So you've left an electronic "paper trail".

Now as far as matching a decrypted message to its encrypted original,
at least realize a PGP message contains freely available info on which
key it was encrypted with and which key signed it. So you use an
anonymous key! Yuk, but it works. Still your same anonymous nickname
goes onto every message sent to you. For signing you can clearsign a
message before you encrypt it.

The other problem is if you are the only one sending a 120K message into
the remailer network and only one ~100K message comes out somewhere,
gee I wonder where it came from ;-)! Few remailers adequately pad things
and none will make a 10K message into a 100K one, and absolutely none will
hide a 100K message in a 10K one :-).

Take a look at Xenon.Rant#1, Xenon.Rant#2, and Xenon.Rant#3 from
anonymous ftp to netcom.com in /pub/qwerty for some ideas and criticism
of trying to be anonymous on the internet. Anonymity out here is not a
reliable thing, and all I use it for is to maintian a nickname, not keep
my identity secret. Anon.penet.fi is OK and easy and it's a lot more
likely that only one person (Julf) will know your real address compared
to the Cypherpunk remailers. For me, I'm just playing with toys ;-).

 -=Xenon=- <qwerty@netcom.com>
