Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!netcomsv!cds8604!Cadence.COM!lou
From: lou@Cadence.COM (Louis K. Scheffer)
Subject: Two more human factors problems with key escrow
Message-ID: <lou.761000247@cadence.com>
Summary: Key escrow, as proposed, has problems
Keywords: key escrow
Sender: usenet@Cadence.COM (Usenet News)
Nntp-Posting-Host: caber.cadence.com
Organization: Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
Date: Fri, 11 Feb 1994 20:57:27 GMT
Lines: 60

I can see at least two problems with key escrow as currently envisioned.

The first is a problem with the escrow agents not needing proof
fo the legality of the need for keys.

For example, suppose the police suspect person A to be a drug dealer.
They request the keys, and get them (no check!) and listen to A's
conversations.  They hear him say to B, "I'll deliver the stuff at
8:00".  Next, they start following B, wait until A has delivered
the stuff, then arrest B.  They then go a judge, and request a
warrent for A's house, saying "We were watching B; A gave him
something; we arrested B later and he had drugs; there is probable
cause for A giving them to him; we need a warrant for A's house."

So the keys were obtained, and an illegal wiretap performed, but
the evidence introduced in court was all obtained legally.  There
appears to be nothing in the current scheme to prevent this.

The second problem is with the NSA, and the volume of keys they will
need.  The NSA can read (legally) all the clipper encrypted messages
outside the US.  They will need the keys to do this.  Even assuming
they are completely honest (as an organization) and never ask for
any keys to domestic traffic, still they will probably need several
thousand keys per day.  (10,000 clipper phones built per day, at
least half are used for overseas calls at some point).  This implies
that either they have all the keys, and we (the citizens) trust them
to only use them on international traffic, or there is a completely
automated way for the NSA to request, and receive, a key pair.
Both of these possible solutions seem very prone to abuse.  Furthermore,
once a given phone is used for overseas traffic, the key (both halves)
is known to the NSA.  If the NSA security is compromised somehow
(say by the Russians, or the French, or the Israelis, etc.) then the
opponent can read (almost) all US domestic and international traffic!
Since the opponents have probably been working for years to penetrate
the NSA, this seems like a very real possibility.

What's the solution?  If you need key escrow the domestic police
problem is not too bad - just require the court order before handing
out the keys.

The NSA problem is much tougher - I see only a few possibilities, none
of them good:
    1) NSA doesn't decrypt the vast majority of international messages.
       For the ones it does, it goes to the escrow agency with some
       certification that the message is in fact international.  I can't
       see the NSA sitting still for this limitation.
The other possible solutions imply that the NSA can read all foreign
messages, one way or another. This leads to a huge unpluggable security
hole if someone else finds the method, whatever it is.
    2a) The NSA doesn't need the keys because there is a backdoor in
       the algorithm.
    2b) The NSA has all they keys, and we trust them to only read
       international traffic.
    2c) The NSA has some automated way of getting all the keys it needs,
       several thousand per day.

Anyway, I think that the key escrow idea as currently suggested is not
workable.  

   -Lou Scheffer
