Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!caen!malgudi.oar.net!news.pipeline.com!not-for-mail
From: bwells@pipeline.com (Albert Wells)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Two more human factors problems with key escrow
Date: 13 Feb 1994 21:52:05 -0500
Organization: The Pipeline
Lines: 45
Message-ID: <2jmp0l$3jt@pipeline.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: pipeline.com



lou@Cadence.COM (Louis K. Scheffer) wrote:


>
>I can see at least two problems with key escrow as 
>currently envisioned. . . .
>

The first of the two problems you posed in your thoughtful 
posting may not be a large one.  Although our Fourth Amendment 
rights have been increasingly curtailed in the last twenty 
years, there is still a doctrine of the "fruit of the poisoned 
tree":  evidence obtained as a result of an illegal seizure 
must be suppressed.  

In your example, the evidence used against both A and B was the 
fruit of the poisoned tree.  The trick for the criminal defense 
lawyer, however, is to find the poisoned tree -- i.e., the 
original, illegally obtained evidence without which A and B 
would never have come to the attention of the authorities.

The second problem you have described is really rather 
disturbing.  Another way of putting you point is that the 
escrowed keys to virtually all Clipper transmissions would, 
over time, be concentrated in one place -- the NSA's foreign 
wiretapping center.  

One of the great appeals of public key encryption is that 
knowledge of keys is as diffuse and as private as possible 
(ideally, keys are known only to one person, and never require 
transmission or sharing).  Each person has a unique key or set 
of keys; no one else knows them.  A breach of security has 
limited consequences relating only to the messages of one 
individual.

Ironically, Clipper (and, presumably, Tessera) turn this 
quality of public key cryptograpy on its head.  As you point 
out, it appears that all escrowed keys would make their way 
into one location.  That makes the NSA's internal security more 
important than ever.  The risk of a breach of that security is 
enormous: the ability to decrypt all Clipper-encoded messages.


