Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!news.umbc.edu!eff!news.kei.com!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!senator-bedfellow.mit.edu!senator-bedfellow.mit.edu!not-for-mail
From: tytso@ATHENA.MIT.EDU (Theodore Ts'o)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Crypto software updates on csn.org:/mpj/
Date: 16 Feb 1994 16:52:03 -0500
Organization: The Internet
Lines: 35
Sender: news@athena.mit.edu
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2ju4i3$2ah@senator-bedfellow.MIT.EDU>
Reply-To: tytso@ATHENA.MIT.EDU (Theodore Ts'o)
NNTP-Posting-Host: senator-bedfellow.mit.edu

   Crossposted-To: alt.security.pgp,talk.politics.crypto,alt.security
   From: mpj@teal.csn.org (Michael Johnson)
   Date: Mon, 14 Feb 1994 18:45:20 GMT

   >My guess is that if the USG wanted to make a fuss, Mark's approach would
   >withstand scrutiny as "reasonable man" precautions and yours (and RSADSI's)
   >would not since the latter contain no checking at all. That is--you don't do
   >anything but tell users they shouldn't get the stuff if it's illegal. If
   >they want to go ahead, they can. Mark actually has their nominal userid,
   >site, makes sure that at least the site is bona-fide U.S., and gives them a
   >password.

   Mark's approach is a little better, but not much.  For one, it is still
   trivial for someone to lie and obtain unauthorized access.  It is also not
   perfect.  For example, I once found a hole in his system that allowed
   unauthorized access (I told him, but I'm not posting it!) That hole was
   nothing compared to the ease of obtaining a U. S. looking network
   connection and sending a deceptive letter to Mark.  I know of a host in
   Denver, Colorado, were several foreign citizens located thousanda of miles
   away have accounts.

It is also trivial for a Japanese citizen to fly into the U.S. on a
tourist Visa, walk into Software Etc., and buy a copy of Norton
Utilities, which contains DES encryption and a notice on the box, "Not
for Export outside of the U.S. or Canada".  Note that the clerk who sold
the software has no obligation to check for proof of citizenship before
selling the package of Norton Utilities.  Nor is (to my knowledge) that
clerk liable if one of his customers subsequently takes the product he
sold them outside of the U.S., especially if he didn't know they were
planning on doing this.

Why should the plight of an anonymous FTP administrator be any
different?

						- Ted
