Newsgroups: sci.bio,sci.bio.technology,sci.chem,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!dsinc!ub!acsu.buffalo.edu!ubvms.cc.buffalo.edu!eledavis
From: eledavis@ubvms.cc.buffalo.edu (Elliot Davis)
Subject: Error Reduction in Pattern Recognition
Message-ID: <CLE4H3.8L6@acsu.buffalo.edu>
News-Software: VAX/VMS VNEWS 1.41    
Sender: nntp@acsu.buffalo.edu
Nntp-Posting-Host: ubvmsb.cc.buffalo.edu
Organization: University at Buffalo
Date: Thu, 17 Feb 1994 22:43:00 GMT
Lines: 40
Xref: msuinfo sci.bio:17871 sci.bio.technology:1426 sci.chem:19674 sci.crypt:23845

Elliot Davis, Ph.D.
E-Mail: edavis@ubvms.cc.buffalo.edu
Phone:  (716) 691-7235 

I would greatly appreciate your thoughts on the:

                    ERROR TEMPLATE TECHNIQUE

The "Error Template" technique (patent 4,802,231) provides an
alternative method for reducing false alarms in pattern recognition
systems. In this approach, a pattern representing a mismatched
pattern is stored in the reference lexicon. It is a reference
pattern to an error rather then to what is desired. THIS IS DONE
WITH THE EXPECTATION THAT IF THE ERROR PATTERN OR A VARIATION OF IT
IS REPEATED IT WILL TEND TO BE CLOSER TO ITSELF THEN TO THE PATTERN
THAT IT FALSED OUT TO. 

Preferential matching to an Error Template can result in the system
deciding that: 

1. the test pattern was outside its reference vocabulary or 

2. the test pattern falsely matched a desired reference pattern but
should be compared for possible matches to other desired reference
patterns and Error Templates. In this case the Error Template is
linked to specific desired reference patterns and is called a
Linked Error Template. 

This technique should be tried on any pattern recognition system
that needs improvement in error reduction or speed. Pattern
recognition systems may be streamlined by reducing the amount of
desired reference templates while keeping the false alarm rate down
by the use of Error Templates. It is, relative to most other
techniques, extremely easy to implement. The Error Template can be
created and positioned in the comparison process in the same way as
a normal reference pattern. As all pattern recognition systems must
have a means of characterizing parameters to be stored and
compared, the applicability of the Error Template technique should
be widely and easily testable.

