Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!news.intercon.com!udel!newsserv.cs.sunysb.edu!ysics.physics.sunysb.edu!pjhong
From: pjhong@cs.sunysb.edu (P. Joseph Hong)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Re One-Time Pads?
Date: 18 Feb 1994 13:45:45 GMT
Organization: Institute For Theoretical Physics
Lines: 73
Message-ID: <2k2gq9$gh9@ysics.physics.sunysb.edu>
References: <CLD8wn.4Mz@cix.compulink.co.uk>
NNTP-Posting-Host: clio.rad.sunysb.edu
X-Newsreader: Tin 1.1 PL3

klockstone@cix.compulink.co.uk (Keith Lockstone) writes:
: 
: Subject: Re: One-Time Pad Cyphers?
:  
: There is one fundamental problem with One-Time Pad Cyphers/Vernam 
: technique that hasn't been noted so far (as I'm aware) in this 
: interaction. It is due to the fundamental property of the XOR 
: operation that is used to hide the plaintext in the keystream. 
:  
: Although the cipher system itself is fundamentally secure from 
: attack (assuming thermionic random number generators), it is 
: _not_ secure against tampering.  
:  
: Consider the case of a banking application where a fixed format 
: message is regularly transmitted that refers to account numbers 
: and sums of money.  If the tamperer knows the message format and 
: the digits involved, then the keystream for that part of the 
: message is obvious - and other digits may be substituted.  
:  

	To rephrase: you have the plaintext and the ciphertext -
components for a known plaintext attack.  If simple XOR operation
was used to encipher, the KEY can be recovered, even if only for
some (important) parts of the message.
	So what did you mean by the cipher system itself being
secure from attack?
	Bruce Schneier's book has a section on stream ciphers
and mentions the problem you are trying to explain.  You can
find it in section 8.3.1 Synchronous Stream Ciphers (paragraph 4).

	Stop for a moment and think about this: what are you
going to do after you have retrieved the KEY to the ciphers your
enemies are using?
	There are several attacks that may be possible to do:

PASSIVE ATTACKS
	Interception/Eavesdropping to gather useful information.
	Even without a recovered key, it is possible to perform
traffice analysis - infer intentions and other information from
the locations and length of communications between parties.

ACTIVE ATTACKS
	This is basically Tampering, and it requires you to have
the capability to introduce changes in the enemy's communications
channel.  Information may be recorded, modified, and inserted into
the comm channel.
	Another type of attack is deletion or delay of messages
in the channel.  This type can be done even with no recovered key.
	The last type is termed "denial of service" attack.  You
can prevent communications by jamming the channel, at least for
some time.  This attack doesn't even need knowledge of the crypto
system being used.

	So, professional cryptographers will entertain only one
assumption, which is worst-case: that once the ciphers have been
attacked successfully - the keys were recovered - then all messages
after that are invalid.
	The only reason that you have not heard of the tampering
vulnerability of the simple XOR cipher is because it is so obvious.


: This problem applies to all stream ciphers (AFAIK) and is one 
: reason why block ciphers (DES, IDEA etc) are preferred.  It can 
: be overcome by use of digital signatures but should be registered 
: as a caveat to those wishing to design stream ciphers.
:  
: Keith Lockstone.
:  

	How about Cipher-Feedback mode?

	Joe
	pjhong@clio.rad.sunysb.edu
