Path: msuinfo!agate!zabriskie.eecs.berkeley.edu!spp
From: spp@zabriskie.eecs.berkeley.edu (Steve Pope)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper
Subject: Re: Key escrow and non-wiretap intercepts
Date: 20 Feb 1994 21:49:06 GMT
Organization: U.C. Berkeley -- ERL
Lines: 42
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <2k8lsi$7pk@agate.berkeley.edu>
References: <mab.761774891@merckx>
NNTP-Posting-Host: zabriskie.eecs.berkeley.edu
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:23944 comp.org.eff.talk:27452 alt.privacy.clipper:2544

Matt Blaze raises a whole slew of interesting and important 
questions, which I certainly don't have the answers to, but
I do have a couple comments.

By the phrase "non wiretap intercepts", I think Matt is really
refering to intercepts whose legal authority stems from
national security legislation rather than court orders
obtained by law enforcement.  (As opposed to simply the
technology used for the intercept.)

The issue of key escrow, and the issue of to what
extent (if any) national security intercepts are usable for
law enforcement purposes, are two very distinct and separate issues.

The former -- the escrow issue -- is a recent creation,
the legalities of which are largely unknown.  But
the latter has been around for decades, and there is much
case history, and many court rulings on this topic.
Some of which I researched about five years ago for reasons
unrelated to the current discussion.

What I learned when I looked into it then is that national
intelligence data is largely unavaiable to law enforcement,
and attempts by law enforcement to use said data (either
investigatorially, or as evidence) are in general illegal
or inadmissible or whatever.

Thus, if for example the NSA has an incriminating tape
of Tonya Harding's phone calls, they may sit around in
Ft. Meade and make jokes about it, but they won't turn
it over to the Justice.  And if they did, Justice couldn't
use it, and attempts to do so would jeapordize their entire
investigation.

What I'm really curious about is the extent to which
this glass wall gets breached -- legally or illegally.
I consider this a much more fundamental question than
the key escrow issue, but what I'm seeing here on eff.talk
is that the spectre of key escrow has drawn attention
to these larger issues.

Steve
