Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!swrinde!sgiblab!pacbell.com!att-out!cbnewsj!merckx!mab
From: mab@research.att.com (Matt Blaze)
Subject: Key escrow and non-wiretap intercepts
Organization: AT&T Bell Laboratories
Date: Sun, 20 Feb 1994 20:08:11 GMT
Message-ID: <mab.761774891@merckx>
Originator: mab@merckx
Sender: news@cbnewsj.cb.att.com (NetNews Administrator)
Nntp-Posting-Host: merckx.l1135.att.com
Lines: 36
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:23941 comp.org.eff.talk:27425 alt.privacy.clipper:2535

After reading over the White House key escrow announcements of February
4th, the following question occured to me:

The DoJ key escrow exploitation procedures as described cover Title
III, state law, and FISA authorized wiretap intercepts.  Do we know
what certification and audit would be required for escrow key
disclosure for decrypts of data originating outside of wiretaps?  For
example, if a confidential informant supplies a Tessera- encrypted data
file (but not the key) containing possible evidence to a law
enforcement agency, and the law enforcment agency would not otherwise
need a court authorization to read the file, will the escrow agencies
still require a court order before releasing the keys?  What body of
law, regulation, or procedure will control such access?  The
announcements and proposals released thus far say nothing about this.

And of course, widespread deployment of Tessera raises even more
questions about who the "consumers" of the escrow keys might be for
non-wiretap decrypts.  Civil suits?  Employers who need access to data
files encrypted by former employees?  What will the escrow agents do
when presented with a request for keys from a non-law enforcement
entity who is legally in possession of escrow-encrypted data but where
no criminal or national security investigation requires it?  Will the
FBI or some other law enforcement agency "sponsor" requests for keys in
such cases?  Is the "law enforcement" access really limited to law
enforcement (and national security) purposes or will keys be released
for other compelling reasons as well?

Wiretaps are the easy case - one needs a court order to get access to
the encrypted data in the first place.  If the government succeeds in
making key escrow the "standard" for other kinds of encryption, there
will also be other kinds of persistent encrypted data for which the key
escrow mechanism is the ONLY legal protection against access.  But we
don't know what that protection is or what safeguards are built in to
its use.

-matt
