Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!sdd.hp.com!saimiri.primate.wisc.edu!news.crd.ge.com!sarah!fenris.albany.edu!mark
From: mark@csc.albany.edu (Mark Steinberger)
Subject: Journal Announcement and Call for Papers
Message-ID: <1994Feb23.031947.19037@sarah.albany.edu>
Originator: mark@fenris.albany.edu
Sender: news@sarah.albany.edu (News Administrator)
Organization: State University of New York at Albany
Date: Wed, 23 Feb 94 03:19:47 GMT
Lines: 188

              Journal Announcement and Call for Papers

     for a Full-Service, Refereed Electronic Mathematics Journal:


                THE NEW YORK JOURNAL OF MATHEMATICS


The New York Journal of Mathematics is a refereed mathematics journal 
being launched by the University at Albany, State University of New
York.

The journal is broadly based in subject matter, covering algebra,
modern analysis, and geometry/topology. 

The papers will be presented via the TeX mathematical typesetting
language, developed by Donald Knuth. TeX has become the standard for
computer typesetting of mathematical publications.

Access will be provided through a variety of electronic means,
including listserv, anonymous ftp and gopher. In particular, access
will be much more convenient than that provided by a conventional
print journal. Because papers will be published as they are accepted
by the editorial board, publication delays will be minimal.

The articles will be archived, date stamped, and maintained by the
University at Albany, State University of New York. The University
takes responsibility for insuring the integrity of the journal's
archive in perpetuity.

The journal will have an ISSN number and will be accessed by the major
bibliographic publications in the field.

The development of this journal is being underwritten by the Office of
Information Systems of the University at Albany, State University of
New York.

Appended below are the details for the submission of articles and for
access to the journal.
 
Sincerely,

Mark Steinberger, The University at Albany, State University of New York
Editor in Chief, New York Journal of Mathematics
mark@sarah.albany.edu


Editors:

Marc Culler, University of Illinois at Chicago
culler@math.uic.edu
ftp drop: /incoming/NYJ on math.uic.edu

Andrew Granville, University of Georgia
nyj@sophie.math.uga.edu
ftp drop: /nyj on sophie.math.uga.edu

Jonathan Lubin, Brown University
lubinj@gauss.math.brown.edu
ftp drop: /NYJ on gauss.math.brown.edu

Paul Muhly, University of Iowa
muhly@math.uiowa.edu

Bodo Pareigis, Universitaet Muenchen
Pareigis@rz.Mathematik.Uni-Muenchen.de

Andrew Ranicki, University of Edinburgh
a.ranicki@edinburgh.ac.uk
ftp drop: incoming/nyj on ftp.maths.ed.ac.uk

Douglas C. Ravenel, University of Rochester
drav@troi.cc.rochester.edu

Richard Rochberg, Washington University
rr@math.wustl.edu

Joseph Rosenblatt, Ohio State University
jrsnbltt@math.ohio-state.edu

David J. Saltman, University of Texas
saltman@math.utexas.edu

Birgit Speh, Cornell University
speh@math.cornell.edu

Ronald J. Stern, University of California at Irvine
rstern@math.uci.edu
ftp drop: /NYJ on math.uci.edu

------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 Instructions for Submission of Articles


Complete information for submission of articles is given in the
journal's gopher/ftp archive. We summarize that information here.

Papers should be submitted by electronic mail to the member of the
editorial board closest to your field. For the convenience of authors,
a guide to the areas considered by the individual editors has been
placed in the journal's archive.

The papers will be refereed in the traditional manner, with one
anonymous referee.

The specifications for our articles are described explicitly in
"Style specifications for electronic submissions to the New York
Journal of Mathematics," on file in the archive. Copies are also
available from the listserv.

Two of these specifications should be emphasized: We ask that authors
prepare their papers using the style files and the templates for front
matter provided by either the archive or the listserv. They are
designed to facilitate the editing process.

We currently have style specifications for submissions in amstex and
amslatex. We may add other flavors of tex at a later date.

We will permit the use of certain specified diagram packages and
techniques for the inclusion of graphics. Details will be provided in
the style specifications.

Authors will have an opportunity to make final corrections before
publication.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Access to the New York Journal of Mathematics


The New York Journal will be accessible by a combination of listserv
and gopher/ftp.

By listserv, we will distribute abstracts of the papers, together with
instructions for retrieving them via ftp and gopher.

The abstracts will be available on four separate listserv lists: one
will distribute abstracts for every paper. The other three are
specialty lists, giving abstracts for papers in algebra, analysis and
geometry/topology, respectively. The reader may, of course, subscribe
to any combination of these lists.

To subscribe, send a note to either listserv@albany.bitnet or
listserv@albany.edu:

    If you want to receive the abstracts for all the papers, the body
    of your note should read

           subscribe NYJMTH-A <your full name>

    For the specialized lists, the body of your note should read

        Algebra:

           subscribe NYJM-ALG <your full name>

        Analysis:

           subscribe NYJM-AN  <your full name>

        Geometry/Topology:

           subscribe NYJM-TOP <your full name>


To avoid duplication, we will only be archiving the postings on
NYJMTH-A, the list carrying all the abstracts. The archive for
NYJMTH-A will also contain the style specifications for submissions
and the templates for frontmatter.


The gopher/ftp archive will contain both the abstract and a .dvi file
for each paper. Both abstract and .dvi will remain unchanged from the
official date of publication, as may be verified by checking the date
stamps.

The gopher archive may be accessed by typing "gopher nyjm.albany.edu".
It is also available under the "Academic Offerings, Departments and
Programs" selection of the main gopher menu of the State University of
New York at Albany.

The same archive will be accessible by anonymous ftp on the machine
ftp_nyjm.albany.edu in the directory /pub/nyjm. (This feature has not
yet been enabled.)

The reader must have access to a printer driver for TeX in order to
print out the .dvi files. Such a driver is present in most mathematics
departments. Math departments, libraries, and other institutional
subscribers are welcome to consult with the Editor in Chief.
