Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!swrinde!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!netcomsv!cds8604!Cadence.COM!lou
From: lou@Cadence.COM (Louis K. Scheffer)
Subject: How about distributed key escrow?
Message-ID: <lou.762223630@cadence.com>
Summary: Distributed escrow avoids most of the problems
Keywords: key escrow
Sender: usenet@Cadence.COM (Usenet News)
Nntp-Posting-Host: caber.cadence.com
Organization: Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
Date: Sat, 26 Feb 1994 00:47:10 GMT
Lines: 75

If you need key escrow, how about the following scheme?

   When you program the chip, write out the two halves of the escrow key
on bar code labels. For each half independently, stick the bar code
labels in envelopes, write the serial number of the unit on the outside,
and seal the envelope with a good seal.  Then, for each envelope, pick
one of 1000 courts in the US at random, and mail them the envelope.
Keep a list of where you sent each envelope, and keep it as securely as
you can.  These steps should be performed at a central agency with
considerable civilian oversight.  

   Each court will get a few letters every day (assuming 10,000 chips
per day are made, each will get 20 letters).  They file them by
serial number without opening them.

   When the police get a wiretap order, they present the order to the
central place to get the addresses of the two courts involved.
They then present the order to the two courts to get the keys.
Hence a legal wiretap is easy.

   The main advantage of this scheme is that there is no central point
of attack that compromises a lot of security.  Tapping a given phone
without authorization requires coopting at least 6 people (assuming
each step uses a pair of people for security).

   If the central list is compromised, the attacks become easier (since
the target courts are now known) but no worse than the current scheme.

If a single court is compromised, no communications are compromised.
If a pair of courts is compromised, then only a few phones are
affected.  This is MUCH better than the current scheme, where
compromising the two escrow agencies (or the single NSA repository)
compromises ALL communications.

If a single court's records are destroyed, 1 in a thousand phones
are now untappable.  Again, this is much better than the current
scheme.  Furthermore, if the central list is secret, no one even
knows which phones are untappable.

If the central list is destroyed, it can be rebuilt from the envelopes
stored at the courts.  This would be a hassle, but not too bad.

Since the keys are stored in sealed envelopes, "fruit of the poisened
tree" searches are much easier.  The defense presents a court order
to the central agency, gets the two court addresses, and they check
whether the envelopes are sealed.  This lets the defense know if
the keys have ever been used, legally or not.

A mass attack on the keys is difficult since they are not in easily
readable form.  It's physically hard to intercept a lot of mail and open a
bunch of sealed envelopes without leaving any sign.  Presumably, court
employees should know what court orders look like, so verification there
should be easy.

It is crucial to this scheme that the NSA does NOT keep a copy of all
keys, and there be no backdoor  - they go through the channels like
everyone else.  The only concern would be that any phone where the NSA had
obtained a key (ever) would then lead to a "poisened tree" defense by the
accused, (since the unsealed envelope reveals that *someone* had requested
the key).  This is technically correct - if any branch of the goverment
knew the key, then you have to assume all communications were
compromised, even if the branches of government involved do not
normally cooperate.  In my opinion this would be good - the local and
state governments would put pressure on the NSA to not listen to
too many calls, since they don't want to have the defense claiming
"poisened tree" all the time.  In my opinion, this would greatly
enhance America's overall security by removing a single point failure.
As recent events have proved, any single point can be attacked by a
determined adversary - the only solution is to design them out.

I think this scheme offers a fair balance between the needs of law
enforcement and the privacy of citizens.  I can't say this about any
other escrow schemes I've seen so far.

  -Lou Scheffer
