Path: msuinfo!scss3.cl.msu.edu!mrr
From: mrr@scss3.cl.msu.edu (Mark Riordan)
Newsgroups: comp.databases.ms-access,sci.crypt
Subject: "RSA" encryption in Microsoft Access
Date: 27 Feb 1994 04:19:37 GMT
Organization: Michigan State University
Lines: 43
Message-ID: <2kp70p$rc7@msuinfo.cl.msu.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: scss3.cl.msu.edu
Summary: Tidbits about Microsoft Access encryption
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
Xref: msuinfo comp.databases.ms-access:3493 sci.crypt:24195

While perusing my copy of the Microsoft Developer Network CD
a while ago, I came across the following statement regarding
encrypted databases in MS's database program "Access":

  Access uses the RSA algorithm for database encryption...
  Due to the overhead of encrypting and decryption, 
  there is a performance degradation of approximately 
  10-15% in encrypted databases. 

From personal experience, I can verify that the overhead
associated with encrypted databases in Access really isn't
bad.  Clearly, "the" RSA algorithm isn't being used!
I wonder what algorithm is really is.  I suppose it's
probably RC2 or RC4.  I wonder what the keysize is:
the full 40-bit maximum exportable keysize, or something
smaller for better performance?

Microsoft makes no comment that I can find regarding how
secure they think the encryption is.  It is interesting that
they evidently went to the trouble of licensing a commercial
encryption algorithm, considering the odd way that it is
used.  

When you encrypt a Microsoft Access database, you do not
specify a key.  You don't need a key to read an encrypted
database from within Access, either.  
However, depending upon how you have set
up your database, you may need a special username and password
within Access to get at any tables, etc.  

From MS's documentation, it appears that the encryption
key used for databases is the Owner and Company Name
supplied by the user during the installation of Access.
This information is evidently kept in the database SYSTEM.MDA.
Loss of SYSTEM.MDA requires reinstallation from the selfsame original
floppy disks.

The Microsoft Access security model, designed as it is for
a totally insecure single-user operating system, is rather
interesting and worth studying.  Microsoft seems to be rather 
up-front about its not being world-class security.

Mark Riordan
