Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!grady
From: grady@netcom.com (Grady Ward)
Subject: Re: Cryptanalysis like a chess game?
Message-ID: <gradyCLw02D.7wu@netcom.com>
Organization: Moby lexical databases
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
References: <9402270137591.davesparks.DLITE@delphi.com>
Date: Sun, 27 Feb 1994 14:25:25 GMT
Lines: 38

Dave Sparks (davesparks@delphi.com) wrote:
: I'm wondering how much cryptanalysis/cryptography is like a chess game.  Let
: me explain.  Let's suppose that you employ a crypto scheme that uses single
: DES with a random session key.  How much "checking" and outguessing your
: potential opponent should go into "validating" that key?  Is it wise to
: assume a RATIONAL opponent?

Well I always choose keys whose binary representation is all one's because
I figure the opponent will waste time going through the entire set of
keys before he or she gets to the last one, mine.  (Just kidding)

I guess the operant thought is unpredictability. As long as the
opponent has no way of reducing the key space by anticipating your
key selection then you have done the best you can do.

Since the set of bad keys is so small compared to the set of all keys,
I wouldn't worry about the chance that your random DES key will turn
out to be 'BOB'.

In real life of course people pick bad keys (see the special 1978 Bell
Tech Journal on bad keys) so the NSA would benefit from a crack program
making the guess that if you are going to look at all the keys anyway
you might as well try the obvious ones first.

Personally all my important keys are selected by rolling a die, choosing
a one bit if the roll is even and a zero bit if the roll was odd.
I combine the bits to make bytes and throw out any 'illegal' bytes
that result.  My entire set of sets is then kept in a master file that
is kept encrypted using PGP with a memorable passphrase. Most of my work
is done on a notebook which is physically locked up during sessions.
I even know the secure hash of my copy of PGP so I can tell if it is
ever modified without my knowledge.

-- 
Grady Ward       | compiler of Moby lexicons:        | finger grady@netcom.com
+1 707 826 7715  | Words, Hyphenator, Part-of-Speech |    for more information
(voice/24hr FAX) | Pronunciator, Thesaurus           | 15 E2 AD D3 D1 C6 F3 FC
grady@netcom.com | and Language; all royalty-free    | 58 AC F7 3D 4F 01 1E 2F
