Phi-pgp Readme

This directory holds the version 1.0  of Phi-pgp interface between GNU
Emacs and PGP (Pretty Good Privacy, public key encription software for
the masses).

Phi-pgp provides users of  Emacs  mail facilities with a   flexible,
robust and consistent access to PGP.

The interface is flexible  as it offers  all the features one user can
hope for, and those  features only. It is  robust to security and with
handling communication  between Emacs and PGP.   Last it is consistent
with both Emacs and PGP standard use.

It have been tested with GNU Emacs version  19.19 and PGP version 2.2,
then later adapted to 2.6ui.

One more Emacs interface to PGP

I do know other interfaces already exist!  If I wrote a  new one it is
mainly because all the previous interfaces I have  tested or looked at
did not provide the features I was expecting.

Here is the list of the features I was required wich Phi-pgp offers:

- possibility to re-enter the pass phrase; as it is allowed by PGP, it
should also be allowed by the interface;

- one single command needed to decrypt messages, whatever the contents
of the message (crypted or signed mail);

- the  key entered by the user   when encrypting/signing a  message is
thorougly checked;

- in addition to that, an Emacs-like completion facility when entering
a key;

- same clever default choices as with PGP whenever possible;

- encrypting open   to a  free   number of  recipients,  automatically
including every of email message recipient;

- full filter use of PGP;

-  user can  select  pass phrase persistancy  during one  single Emacs
session;

- multiple secret keys;

- flexible handling of Emacs abort C-g;

-  no modification of user's mail  box while decrypting, provided that
messages are kept in a separate buffer;

- a way to handle "for your eyes only" type of crypted messages.

Well, I managed all this.

The file INSTALL tells about installing Phi-pgp.

Build and print  the documentation for  more discussion  about the new
features and for a user manual.

The  Internal   directory  contains files, documentation   and various
documents about  the  conception, development, coding  and  so  on, of
Phi-pgp. It should be used only by peoples  who want to develop/modify
Phi-pgp. See Internal/README for more information.
