Path: msuinfo!caen!uwm.edu!ogicse!verdix!islabs!fasttech!zeke
From: zeke@fasttech.com (Bohdan Tashchuk)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: A Trial Balloon on Registered Keys
Message-ID: <1992Oct30.140837.12171@fasttech.com>
Date: 30 Oct 92 14:08:37 GMT
Article-I.D.: fasttech.1992Oct30.140837.12171
References: <1992Oct27.143737.1574@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu>
Organization: Fast Technology
Lines: 62

In <1992Oct27.143737.1574@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu> denning@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu writes:

>The posting about the proposal I made at the NCSC for key registration
>is essentially correct.  Let me add to it the following:

>2.  The reason I made the proposal is because I am concerned that we
>may be facing a major crisis in law enforcement.  I expect many of
>you will say "that's wonderful" but I don't see it that way.  
>Electronic surveillance has been an essential tool in preventing 
>serious crimes such as terrorist attacks and destabilizing organized crime.
>The economic benefits alone are estimated to be in the billions.  This
>issue is not about snooping on innocent citizens but about doing what
>we can do prevent major crimes that could seriously disrupt other
>liberties.  The problem is likely to get even worse if criminals know
>they use the telecommunications systems without any chance of getting
>caught.

This isn't just silly, it's not just drivel, it's a gross infringement
of our civil liberties.

I'm sure that once a law like this is passed that John Gotti and others of his
ilk will make sure they are "registered". Yeah, right. If you buy that, you
would also buy a very lovely 110-year-old bridge in John's previous city of
residence.

The clear danger to our civil liberties is that, if John Gotti doesn't
register, then the government has an open-and-shut case against him for this
new "crime". After all, since he's hiding something he MUST be a crimminal.
No need to prove any actual crime, just the "crime" that BIG BROTHER doesn't
know exactly what John and his associates are saying to each other. Let me be
as blunt as I can: THIS SUCKS, BIG TIME. And, as other people have noted, the
potential for selective prosecution here is enormous. Also, isn't requiring the
crypto keys compelling someone "to be a witness against himself"?

So you feel the war on drugs is worth completely gutting both our fourth and
fifth amendments? If so, you're probably of the ilk that feels the second
amendment should be repealed, and the first amendment doesn't apply to speech
that isn't Politically Correct. Now that you've completely gutted our
constitution, exactly what "other liberties" are you preserving?

Yes, we are facing a major crisis in law enforcement. But looking at crypto
is missing the forest for the trees. While organized crime is certainly a
problem, it isn't what is MOST wrong these days. What is most wrong is the
total failure of the criminal justice system to investigate crimes that do
occur, and to incarcerate the criminals it does convict.

Let me give you an example from the City of Portland in my home state of
Oregon. One fine summer month last year some local big-shot had his car stolen
at gunpoint. The police investigated his case. But in the publicity that
surrounded it, the statistics revealed were astonishing. Out of 591 stolen
cars that month, the police only investigated eight. Giving the police KGB-like
powers to indiscriminitely spy on everyone isn't going to help the owners of
the 583 cars whose theft wasn't investigated.

Compared to the total failure of law enforcement at the local level, the Feds
have done a great job of convicting the Gotti's of the world, without odious
key registration requirements.

Lastly, although organized crime has been a continuing major problem in this
country, what "terrorist attacks" have there been lately that you feel you
will be preventing? Or do you suggest that the PLO, the Syrians, and the
Iranians will also be registering their keys once your proposal becomes law?
