Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:10338 comp.org.eff.talk:11028 alt.privacy:4641 talk.politics.guns:45291
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy,talk.politics.guns
Path: msuinfo!caen!batcomputer!genie!starr
From: starr@genie.slhs.udel.edu (Tim Starr)
Subject: Re: Registering "Assault Keys"
Message-ID: <1992Nov2.110258.21489@genie.slhs.udel.edu>
Organization: UDel, School of Life & Health Sciences
References: <720551648.1393@zooid.guild.org>
Date: Mon, 2 Nov 1992 11:02:58 GMT

In article <720551648.1393@zooid.guild.org> ron@zooid.guild.org (Secret Mud) writes:
}There is no one single correct way of running a society.  In Canada, our way
}works for us.  A lot less people get shot here.  And we try and protect
}ourselves against the government by getting over 50% of the population to
}actually vote in an election.

We're not talking about"running a society," we're talking about the degree
to which individual liberty is to be impinged.

Canada's way works?  Which is why the country's in more debt per capita than
the US, which is quite a bloody feat?  Which is why Quebec wants out, why
Mulroney has the lowest public approval rating of any Canadian leader in
history?  Why Canadians have formed "underground railroads" to get medical
patients into the US for necessary medical treatments?  Why you're in a
recession?  Why Preston Manning's decentralist Reform Party has so many
followers who want to devolve power in Canada?

}It might not work in your corner of the planet, but that's not my problem...

It doesn't work wherever it involves human beings engaging in human action,
and IF that includes you, then it most definitely IS your problem as well
as the rest of ours.

}I believe in being able to protect my data, until I am presented with a court
}order to allow it to be searched.  Linking the issue with gun control doesn't
}help the argument at all.

Protect it with what?  A pea shooter?  Court orders aren't infallible, and
nowadays they can almost be presumed wrong, at least in the US, if not in
Canada and a lot of other countries as well.

You don't get the point.  The point is that prohibiting anything that isn't
a violation of another's rights is wrong because it's both immoral and
impractical.  Prohibition is the ultimate form of regulation, and applying
either to cryptography or guns hinders the progress of mankind.


Tim Starr - Renaissance Now! - Think Universally, Act Selfishly
starr@genie.slhs.udel.edu

"True greatness consists in the use of a powerful understanding to enlighten
oneself and others." - Voltaire
