Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!engr.uark.edu!mbox.ualr.edu!grapevine!john.eichler
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: A Trial Balloon on Registered Keys
Message-ID: <876.517.uupcb@grapevine.lrk.ar.us>
From: john.eichler@grapevine.lrk.ar.us (John Eichler) 
Date: 2 Nov 92 13:53:00 GMT
Reply-To: john.eichler@grapevine.lrk.ar.us (John Eichler) 
Distribution: world
Organization: The GrapeVine BBS *** N. Little Rock, AR *** (501) 753-8121
Lines: 99


MESSAGE DIRECTED TO: denning@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu <Dr. Dorothy Denning>

As per message-ID: <1992Oct27.143737.1574@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu>

>2.  The reason I made the proposal is because I am concerned that we
 may be facing a major crisis in law enforcement.  I expect many of
 you will say "that's wonderful" but I don't see it that way.

And per message-ID: <1992Oct29.174332.1601@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu>

>As a society we do many things to help law enforcement because humans are
 not so great  about doing certain things unless at least mildly coerced.
 How many people would pay their full taxes if employers weren't obliged to
 report their incomes?  (Some of you probably think this is a bad idea
 too, but let's not go off onto that tangent.)

Not meaning to be disrespectful, I can't fail to notice that in two of your
messages as quoted above you have inferred that many of your readers jump
for joy at thwarting the laws of this country.  I for one am concerned about
any major crisis that may be pending in the field of law enforcement and,
as a responsible citizen, am anxious to do anything I can to help in this
regard. [More about this later...]

I also don't need government coercion to make me pay my taxes in full.
Many times I have reported miscellaneous income where there was no other
record of such income save in my head.  I feel that I can say in all honesty
that I have never cheated the government out of one cent that was rightfully
due to them in taxes as I am sure most other Americans have done likewise.

I guess I wonder just how you do regard most others in respect to their
responsibilities under the law.  Do you really feel that our country is
filled with non-law abiding citizens?  Does this attitude also find its
way into the government community in general?

In reference to message-ID: <1992Oct29.174332.1601@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu>

>The arguments against registration seem to fall into two classes:
 1) it's futile and 2) we shouldn't trust the government.

I'd like to relate to you a true story that happened to me about 4 years ago.
I'm purposefully going to remain somewhat vague as to where this happened but
should you want more details I will provide them to you encoded with your
personal public PGP key if you have the inclination to provide it to me via
Email.  Although public key encryption was not available to me then, I sure
wish that it had been.

My best friend for the last 35+ years is from and lives in a foreign country.
He has a PhD in engineering and has worked for the government of that country
for many years.  His wife worked for a total of some 17+ years for the U.S.
Department of State in that country (i.e., in the Embassy), the last 10 of
which she was an Anti-Fraud Investigator in the Visa Section.   She and one
other man (who I will call 'co-worker') handled all the investigation of
people wanting to obtain visas to come to the U.S.  I might note that I have
know my friend's wife since 1960 and I believe her to be very trustworthy.

Both she and co-worker (who, by the way, had worked for the Embassy for
24 years and was praised by the Consul General as being one of the finest
FSN - foreign service nationals - he had ever met) were continually offered
bribes by people wishing to obtain visas and were used to getting death
threats by gangs of 'visa brokers' who were anxious to get rid of them. Both
of these individuals received continued praise from their American superiors
in the department for the outstanding work they had done. In fact, in 1988,
they both received Certificates of Praise from the U.S. DEA for outstanding
work in the war on drugs. I feel that any person I know would have been proud
of both of these people for doing work that was at times quite dangerous.

When co-worker transferred to a different section of the Embassy, they hired
a new man (called ex-cop) to replace him.  After a few months later, she was
asked to investigate a complaint by someone wishing to obtain a visa.  She
went and interviewed that individual and learned that ex-cop had done some
questionable things in regards to this case.  She wrote a report about the
matter to her superiors.  About a month later she (and my friend) were called
in by Embassy Security (called SY) and questioned in regards to a potential
'pay off' which they supposedly were involved in.  We learned later that it
was ex-cop and another shady individual in the Embassy who brought the charges
against her.

Now my friend was very good at her job as an Anti-Fraud Investigator so she
knew many highly placed officials in the countries' Police Department.  She
started poking around and came up with ex-cop's official work record which
showed that he was on suspension from the Police Department who was working on
4 civil criminal cases against him for corruption, harrassment of people, etc.
She presented this evidence to SY and the result was that a few weeks later
ex-cop called her one evening and threatened both she and her family with
murder threats.  Because she had received murder threats before, she always
kept a cassette recorder near her phone and she recorded most of the conver-
sation. The next day she presented the tape directly to the Consul General
of the Embassy and wrote a memo about the incident.  She also contacted the
local police because she was afraid of the threats to her family.  Nothing
was done about this except the Embassy put her on leave from her job as
an investigator.

About a month or so later she was terminated from the Embassy.  She appealed
the case and when it came time for her hearing, co-worker acted as her

---
 . SM 1.06 ----- . Email: john.eichler@grapevine.lrk.ar.us
                                                                                                                      
