Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uchinews!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!sdd.hp.com!saimiri.primate.wisc.edu!ames!kronos.arc.nasa.gov!iscnvx!netcomsv!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: RSA marketing weakness or lack of demand?
Message-ID: <1992Nov6.235631.538@netcom.com>
Organization: Netcom - Online Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
References: <1992Nov4.195416.4015@netcom.com> <iDLTTB12w165w@mantis.co.uk>
Date: Fri, 6 Nov 1992 23:56:31 GMT
Lines: 38


Mathew post some paranoid ravings (his characterization, not mine--the
guy's got a sense of humor) to the effect that the assignment of the
patents to Public Key Partners, and their refusal to license the
technology for PGP is a disguised attempt by the U.S. Government
to control the technology.

There are a number of problems with this notion. First, they've been
willing to license the RSA subroutine package pretty readily--for example
to all the beta testers of ripem (a system roughly similar in
concept to pgp). Second, though pgp uses IDEA rather than DES,
it does use the public key system, and apparently there's no objection
provided it's for non-commercial use. This makes it readily available,
and malfeasers can use it as easily as you and I, thus thwarting any
notion that it's being controlled by the USG.

Finally, since the patents don't apply in Europe and the system is well
known, there's nothing to prevent its use with systems such as IDEA
by non-U.S. types, or even with DES or a stronger version by foreign
governments. Thus the main targets of our communications intelligence,
foreign powers, are not hampered by the PKP patent and RSA's failure
to market more vigorously.

In sum, the only limits on use caused by RSA's failure to market the
system more vigorously are low priority targets of the USG's
communications concerns. One might even argue that if that were the
USG strategy it is counter-productive in that it limits U.S.
commercial firms--the very organizations it's in our national interest
to protect most against the dangers of using insecure cryptosystems.

I fear we either have to look elsewhere for a satisfactory explanation
for RSA/PKP partner's failure to market the system software more
widely and vigorously, or the USG has been pretty silly in their
attempts to control it via that path.
-- 
David Sternlight
(pgp 2.0 and ripem public keys available on request)

