Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!ira.uka.de!gmd.de!Germany.EU.net!mcsun!chsun!bernina!caronni
From: caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch (Germano Caronni)
Subject: Re: time-release keys
Message-ID: <1992Nov13.030644.17253@bernina.ethz.ch>
Sender: news@bernina.ethz.ch (USENET News System)
Organization: Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH), Zurich, CH
References: <1dohq8INNbs4@transfer.stratus.com>
Date: Fri, 13 Nov 1992 03:06:44 GMT
Lines: 34

In article <1dohq8INNbs4@transfer.stratus.com> cme@ellisun.sw.stratus.com (Carl Ellison) writes:
>
>Does anyone out there have an idea of how to achieve this time-release of
>info (probably of an encryption key rather than of a body of text) with the
>independence of human good behavior but a decent time interval?

How about encrypting such news with an RSA-Key or so, and just forget
the secret key. If anybody cares about the information, he can gather
computing powers to factorize the public key, and then can read the public
encrypted message. Just hope that computers are not fast enough into
break the key in already 10 years :-) (Yes , I know, this is a silly idea:-))

Just for my curiosity: How would you assure the information was stored in
an archive,which will be openend in 30 years ? In every good thriller about
spies, there are files which are not recorded anywhere .... :-)

Second Idea: Assuming the information is reliably put into a kind of
achive and the problem lies only there to get people to 'open' the
archive after 30 years, make this independent from people.
Any kind of physical process wil do: Place a radio-mirror in about
15 Lightyears distance (yes - silly - I know) and just send out the message
you want to have publicly available after 30 Years. Or bury it somewhere
where erosion will let it get to daylight after 30 years. Put the information
in space, and give it a kind of orbit, which with high probability comes back
to you after 30 years. In the meantime distance shall be as big as possible :-=)

Dont take me too serious ;^)

		gec
-- 
Instruments register only through things they're designed to register.
Space still contains infinite unknowns.

Germano Caronni    caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch
