Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!swrinde!gatech!nntp.msstate.edu!Ra.MsState.Edu!kdm1
From: kdm1@Ra.MsState.Edu (Kenneth D. Mitchell)
Subject: Get your security ideas in print!!
Message-ID: <kdm1.721649752@Ra.MsState.Edu>
Summary: looking for input for a book
Keywords: encrypt,security
Sender: news@ra.msstate.edu
Nntp-Posting-Host: ra.msstate.edu
Organization: Mississippi State University
Date: Fri, 13 Nov 1992 10:15:52 GMT
Lines: 49

 
 
If you have any wonderful ideas that have not been discussed
before about data security, communications security, and computer
security let me know.
 
I am helping to research a book on computer security and data encryption.
Anyone that provides a new insightful idea or technique can
get their name and email address listed in the credits.
Just because you mail does not mean you get your name in the credits,
you have to give me something good.
 
I already know about multiple encryptions of DES, so dont tell me about
that.
 
I dont want to know about this wonderful thing called 'public-key'
I know about that too.
 
What I DO want is something new and innovative, like how your neighbor
converted his tv and shortwave to monitor the computer screens at the bank.
Or how you pass secret keys using carrier pidgeons.
Or how you implement the Canary Trap in your mail.
Or how you keep the FBI from learning from your computer after they have
confiscated it.
Or how you converted your bedroom to a TEMPEST/VanEck proof area.
Or how you tapped your schools fiberoptic network.
 
Tell me what you think about Nortons Diskreet, Wipeinfo
Tell me about such and such program that claims to be DES but is
   really Caesar.
Tell me if there is a vendor that sells one-time pad systems.
Tell me how to beat ethernet encryption software
Tell me if you have some way of sending data besides modem, microwave,
internet, compuserve, radio network, ethernet, fiberoptic, telepathy
   or tell me something new in these fields.
 
It must be something that I can suggest to others,
something that is tested and explain why you think it is secure or insecure,
something I can tell others to watch out for or not to use,
 
 
Tell me something I probabally dont know.
 
I will not respond by telling you 'that is a stupid idea, everyone knows
that', this is supposed to be a learning service.
 
I cannot gurauntee that I will respond to everyones mail but I will try.
All help is appreciated.

