Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!jvnc.net!yale.edu!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: New Administration and Crypto Regulation
Message-ID: <921110234334.934244@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Date: 10 Nov 92 23:43:00 GMT
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Lines: 36


>I predict that unless a key registration law is "sneaked in" there's
>going to be a bitter public battle over this issue during the current
>Clinton administration. Hone your arguments and your
>intervention/lobbying/testimony techniques now, whatever side of this
>you're on.

You had better be vigilant, diligent, and skilled.  My sources tell me
that the bureaucracy is determined to win this one.  They believe that
the issue is bigger than any administration, but they expect both the
Clinton administration and the new congress to be sympathetic.

Notice that Dr. Denning has far the easier case to argue.  All she has
to do is keeping pointing out that she is on the side of "LE."
Nevermind that that is irrelevant.  Nevermind that her proposals will
not help LE.  She is on the right side, the side of the angels.  Her
arguments are both politically correct and on the side of the death
penalty.  How can she loose?  Who cares?  A bunch of gun nuts and other
libertarian flakes?  Who can even understand?  Nevermind that there is
no problem, DDD has a solution.  The solution is both politically and
technically correct.  It favors BOTH law enforcement and
national security.  It is favored by the DoJ, the DoD, the NSA and the
FBI.  What else does any congressman have to know?

Perhaps I underestimate the American people; even my sixteen year old
Goddaughter saw the mischief in this proposal without anyone pointing it
out to her.  But one relies upon an uninstructed congress at one's peril.

When we succeeded in getting the language taken out of Senate 266, we
thought that we had seen the last of it.  It has since shown up in at
least three bills.  It will continue to be proposed over and over; it
will not die.  The price of freedom is eternal vigilance.

William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104, New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
203 966 4769, WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
