Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!spool.mu.edu!yale.edu!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Subject: Crypto Challenge
Message-ID: <921114141514.451406@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Date: Sat, 14 Nov 1992 14:15:00 GMT
Lines: 54


 >Well, I WOULD HAVE liked to see a warmer reception.  But maybe this
 >was the wrong place in which to post the challenge. The NIH syndrome
 >seems particularly strong...

You do not seem to listen very well.  You have been given a very
thorough explaination of why those here are not interested in
your challenge.  The reasons have nothing to do with where your
mechanism was invented.  You chose to discount them under the
rubric of NIH.  Perhaps you do not want to understand.

>We were, however, interested in having its *output* looked at by some
>professionals, if we could find some willing ones.

I am sure you were.  However, you did not offer professional
terms.  You tried to bait professionals into working on non-
professional terms.  I do not blame you for trying, but you
should not be surprised that it did not work.  You tried to 
bait professionals into doing your work for you.  

The reason that strong cryptography must be developed by
cryptographers is that that is where all the work is.  If I
show you the form of the DES, you can devise your own in a few
minutes.  All of the work is in finding out how strong it is.
You are asking professionals to give away their stock in trade
to do YOUR work.

The inventors of the DES invested 17 man years in its cryptanalysis;
the evaluators many more.  It has since been subjected to tens
of man years of additional analysis.  Likewise, many implementations
of the DES have been insecure because they were done by good
programmers but poor cryptographers.

Ask the Japanese.  They put all of their effort into the
DEVELOPMENT of the FEAL.  It fell to an attack that they did not
know about.  The DES resists the same attack because its
inventors did know about the attack.

Sorry.  Professionals of all ilk have learned that if they want
to eat, they must resist all kinds of bait to give away their 
services.  You keep telling them how good the bait smells, but
they have seen traps before.  If you want their services, you must 
engage them on the normal terms.  They are not cheap but they 
are worth their hire.

Unfortunately, your friend will find that there is a Gresham's
Law of crytography:  the availability of
strong public crypto drives all secret crypto from the market.
(While governments still use secret crypto, they do not buy it
in the market and they will not buy from your FRIEND.)

William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104, New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
203 966 4769, WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
