Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!spool.mu.edu!think.com!yale.edu!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Subject: Demons and Ogres
Message-ID: <921114194205.185475@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Date: Sat, 14 Nov 1992 19:42:00 GMT
Lines: 57


Terry Ritter   ritter at cactus.org

If you cannot show that your proposal in fact offers any protection
against the demons, then it is not justified.  

I do not argue that the government cannot deny us the right to
use crypto.  They have succeeded in doing that by secrecy, cooption,
and threat for all of recorded time.  But their motive is not
now and never has been to protect us from demons.  It is now
and has always been to preserve their access to cheap surveilance.

I do not plan to offer them comfort and support by pretending,
or conceeding, that demons are at issue.

It is not that we do not want to understand the other guys fear
of demons.  It is that we already understand it all too well.
We understand that if we allow his fear to be the issue, we will
loose one more time.  

If you will recall the thread, I predicted that they would 
raise the demons and begged that they be required to address
how their proposals would protect against the demons before 
they could use their size and horror to justify the restrictions
that they propose.  

Once more, the horror of the demons is not even at issue until you can
show effectiveness against demons.

While the authorities raise demons as justification, they are
not afraid of them.  

While they talk about legal wire-taps, there are only hundreds
of those in any year.  They are not effective against demons.

The issue is in part the ability to continue illegal wire-taps;
even these are not efficient against demons.

Mostly, the issue is one of the efficiency of signals intelligence.
which will be reduced by any wide-spread use of crypto.

I operate on the assumption that NSA can read any traffic that
they want to read badly enough.  On the other hand, they are
afraid that they cannot efficiently identify which traffic
they want to read from a great deal of trivially encrypted
traffic.

Now, if you really want to resist, it is essential that you 
hold them to their real motives and intentions; you can win 
on that ground.  You cannot win if you permit them to pretend 
that the issue is demons.  They have demonstrated throughout all
history that they can conjure all the demons necessary to justify
whatever they want.  

William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104; New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
1-0-ATT-0-700-WMURRAY; WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
