Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!destroyer!cs.ubc.ca!unixg.ubc.ca!kakwa.ucs.ualberta.ca!alberta!cpsc.ucalgary.ca!dcssun!vort!mike
From: mike@vort.cuc.ab.ca (Mike Nemeth)
Subject: Re: Limits on the Use of Cryptography
Message-ID: <1992Nov14.181446.19762@vort.cuc.ab.ca>
Distribution: na
Date: Sat, 14 Nov 1992 18:14:46 GMT
Lines: 97

in article <1992Nov12.205452.23329@cactus.org>, ritter@cactus.org
(Terry Ritter) writes...

> OK, choose your own worst case.  The point here is to be able to
> confront the worst arguments the other side can muster, and so
> legitimately influence legislation.  Blustering won't do it.

Protest is a method of legitimately influencing legislation.
Does "no more taxation without representation" ring a bell?

> If you wish to wait until *after* some of us are arrested and put
> lots lawyer's kids through school to hope for the courts to throw
> out a law restricting cryptography, be my guest.  Frankly, I think
> it more appropriate to understand what a reasonable position would
> be, and push that, in opposition to more radical proposals for
> extensive regulation or simply shouting "Just say NO."

A famous defence lawyer once said "reason must never make wrong right".
Why should we accept that the FBI's position is "reasonable"? They
see that the cold-war has wound down, and the military is cutting
back. Any bureaucracy will fight for it's survival and this appears to
be a blatant attempt to continue yielding Draconian powers after the
"emergency" is over. If it's a choice between continuing employment
for a comparitively small group of bureaucrats versus not decreasing
the personal freedom for the majority of citizens any more, what do
you think the person on the street would say?

> Again, blustering won't do it.  What we need are cogent arguments
> which recognize any legitimate concerns society may have about
> the unregulated widespread use of this new technology.

Okay, here's a non-blustering argument: Money. On a cost-basis, any
attempt to enforce a law that makes private use of cryptography is a
seriously money-losing proposition. Reasoning follows:

- Every company that produces communications equipment such as
  telephones, telexes, FAXes, and radios must adhere to such a law,
  vaguely worded as it will undoubtably be, so in addition to hiring
  additional engineers and workers, companies must also increase the
  level of work done by their legal staff, who will be responisible
  for insuring that the company does not bend said regulations. Also,
  there is the cost of new materials and re-tooling costs. All this
  will cost real dollars, unless it is passed on to the consumer of
  said products.

- There will necessarily be more government bureaucrats in the loop.
  Somebody must vette the people working on communications products,
  in much the same way that companies producing military components
  are vetted. More costly paperwork that the company or ultimately
  the taxpayer must shoulder.

- There will be more court cases wherein citizens will attempt to
  obtain judgement in their favour or collect civil damages after
  having been falsely accused of some illegal activity (unless that
  never happens :-), so you're going to end up paying for a lot of
  lawyer's kids schooling anyway, through your taxes necessary to
  pay for more judges, more clerks, more costly paperwork, and more
  bureacracy.

- Some companies will go under as a result of additional paperwork
  and taxes. Bankruptcy courts also cost the taxpayer money. You could
  argue that that's the way the cookie crumbles in the free market.
  The last American television manufacturer just cratered yesterday
  (Globe-and-Mail business section of yesterday's paper), marking
  the end of American involvment in making televisions. Every
  television that you buy from now on was made outside your country,
  and that particular market is worth hundreds of billions of dollars
  a year. A pretty expensive cookie if you ask me, and the company's
  excuse was too much government regulation, too high taxes, no
  incentives, ... 

- Finally, Reagan's attempts to force Europe to obey American technology
  embargos towards the USSR failed. What makes you think for a minute
  that anybody outside the US is going to buy communications systems
  that were _designed_ to be tapped? Goodbye foreign communications
  market!

Looks like an awful lot of money if you add it all up. Let's add in
the cost of the new FBI agents needed to listen in on all those
conversations and inspect all those hard-disks, the bureaucrats to
vette those FBI agents, those bureacrat's office costs, the cost of
archiving said conversations on some fairly durable medium, new police
to arrest those new criminals, new jails to put all the new criminals in,
new jailers to watch over said criminals, new bureaucrats to shuffle all
the paperwork, ...

All this in an cost-cutting adminstration.  Where is the money going to
come from? You can bet it won't be easy to force this one past the 100
or so new Congress-critters that were just elected unless they can
porkbarrel their own little piece of the pie out of it, which is going
to jack up the cost even more! Have you looked at the national debt
lately? Of course, if no price is too high to pay for a "safer society" ...

-- 
Bring the whole family to visit Our Famous Rack! Free thumbcuffs for the kids!

Mike Nemeth       VORT Computing      Calgary, Canada
