Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!convex!news.utdallas.edu!corpgate!bnrgate!bnr.co.uk!pipex!demon!constant.demon.co.uk!slangley
From: slangley@constant.demon.co.uk (Simon Langley)
Subject: Re: Finally! We're getting somewhere.
Message-ID: <BxqFx6.Iz@constant.demon.co.uk>
Organization: Home
X-Newsreader: Tin 1.1 PL5
References: <1992Nov9.221453.9440@qualcomm.com>
Date: Sun, 15 Nov 1992 00:55:54 GMT
Lines: 42

Phil Karn (karn@qualcom.qualcomm.com) wrote:
: |> the final say on our laws belongs to the elected representatives of the
: |> people rather than a group of unelected Supreme Court judges.  Our system
: |> has served us well for 350 years, how is the US system "safer"?
: 
: This isn't a bug, it's a feature.
: 
I do take your point about this.  I wasn't suggesting that our system is
better, only different.

: Democracy is easy. It's really not *that* hard to find out what
: the majority wants and then to implement it. A mob is probably the
: purest form of democracy there is.
: 
: But the real measure of a civilization lies in its ability to protect
: the rights of unpopular minorities against the passing, emotional
: outbursts of the majority. Placing the final say in the hands of nine
: unelected (but hardly unscrutinized) judges who serve for life is
: essential if you are serious about individual rights.
: 
What you are describing is Constitutional inertia.  This is a good thing 
if you have a good Constitution, and I believe that your Constitution is
largely something to be proud of.  However, if a decision were made
that reduced civil rights (eg if Roe v. Wade were overturned) it would be
difficult to change it back, even if a majority of the population thought
that it was wrong.

(BTW, I only chose Roe v. Wade as an example because I know that there would
be a huge outcry if it were overturned, and I also know that there has
been a lot of discussion over the last couple of years about the likelihood
of this happening.)

: As former Justice Brennan used to say, "The majority already have the
: other two branches of government. We're here for the minority."
: 
What does Justice Rehnquist have to say on this subject :-).
 
 
-- 
   Simon Langley                   (preferred)   slangley@constant.demon.co.uk
   Hampstead, London
   pgp 2.0 public key available                  slangley@cix.compulink.co.uk
