Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!spool.mu.edu!yale.edu!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Subject: Public Key Patents
Message-ID: <921115143047.034931@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Date: Sun, 15 Nov 1992 14:30:00 GMT
Lines: 56


>Bob Cain    rcain at netcom.com   408-358-2007:

>The only thing that really sticks in my craw is the fact that all the
>work was funded by taxpayers.  This is a fundamental flaw in the system
>and we should be working to change that.  Any country's citizen should
>have unlimited rights to use any patent resulting from its government's
>funded work!  That could still be made law and should be.

Be careful what you ask for, you might get it. "UNLIMITED rights to
use" might result in no patent at all.

My understanding is that Public Key Partners, Inc. was established by 
the original owners of the public key patents, Stanford University, 
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, et. al., to exploit their 
interests in the patents.  Both are publicly chartered institutions 
whose charters permit them to develop own and exploit patents.

My understanding is that there is no intent to restrict the use of the
patents beyond what is necessary to protect and preserve the interests
of the constituencies of the of the owning institutions.  Indeed, it
would likely be considered a breach of fiduciary responsibility to fail
to do so. 

They have exploited the patents, in part, by licensing them to 
hardware and software developers and vendors.  Equity to those who
have paid for the use of the patents requires that the owners defend
them from use by those who have not paid.  Otherwise there would be
no value to the license.

I am not aware of how the original research was funded.  If there were
federal funds involved, then it safe to assume that they were disbursed
under the usual contracts governing such funds.  These contain 
provisions that stipulate who will own the resulting research product.
It is equally safe to assume that the federal government can and would
defend any surviving 'taxpayer' interest.  

Now with all due respect to the discomfort in Bob McCain's Craw, I think
that in this particular case it is a little late to complain.   It seems
as though everything has happened in accord with existing public policy.
The inventions  are widely available, and the owners equitably compensated.  
In this case it is a bonus that the primary owners are educational and 
research institutions.

To avoid further discomfort Bob may wish to revise the policy to provide 
for a different distribution for the future.  If so, Bob, you may wish
to study the history of patent law.  It is very interesting in its own
right but my reading  suggests that it has served us very well as it is.
Limited patents are granted by the government because we have concluded,
after considering and trying alternatives,  that that is the best way to
serve the public interest.  While it may not work perfectly in all
cases, it works pretty well on balance.

William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104; New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
1-0-ATT-0-700-WMURRAY; WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
