Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!jvnc.net!yale.edu!qt.cs.utexas.edu!cs.utexas.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!linac!uwm.edu!ogicse!psgrain!charnel!sifon!newsflash.concordia.ca!pavo.concordia.ca!se_schn
From: se_schn@pavo.concordia.ca [ Ranfry ]
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Cryptology and criminals
Keywords: Cryptology, Crime
Message-ID: <BxL7DM.7n@newsflash.concordia.ca>
Date: 12 Nov 92 05:02:00 GMT
Sender: se_schn@pavo.concordia.ca (SCHNAAR, SHELDON E.)
Organization: Concordia University, Montreal, Canada
Lines: 30
Nntp-Posting-Host: pavo7.concordia.ca

A lot of talk as been heard about banning cryptography because
crimminals can use it to hide their business.  Okay, I can see
the logic behind this.  So, in the same spirit I propose the 
following messures to hamper criminals.
Message-ID: <12NOV199200020240@pavo.concordia.ca>
Organization: Concordia University
News-Software: VAX/VMS VNEWS 1.41    

1) Ban the use of cars and other private transportation systems.
   Tis a proven fact that many criminals use private transportation
   in order to do their unlawful activities.  Without these
   private means, many criminal activity will be stopped.

2) Ban private housing.  Have everyone live in communal dwellings.
   If criminals don't have private places to hide and keep
   their equimpment and stash, well they won't be able to do much.

3) Ban cloathing.  Who can hide a weapon if clothes are not worn?

4) Ban .....Arrrghhh.  I think you get the point.  Tis stupid to 
ban something solely because some criminal activity will be
enhanced.  You people seem to think that crimminals will actually
stop using crytography?  Get real.  There are plenty of systems 
around that cannot be broken, as long as the keys and algorythms
are kept secret.  Lots of groups, both legal and unlawful, have
used these for centuries.  If you really think these laws will
make any difference you need a reality check.

As someone pointed out, the only people that will be affected are
those who obey all laws.
