Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!uwm.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!milano!cactus.org!ritter
From: ritter@cactus.org (Terry Ritter)
Subject: Re: Limits on the Use of Cryptography?
Message-ID: <1992Nov13.191952.23709@cactus.org>
Organization: Capital Area Central Texas UNIX Society, Austin, Tx
References: <1992Nov11.061210.9933@cactus.org> <1992Nov11.222838.27134@cactus.org> <1992Nov13.092141.26252@ringer.cs.utsa.edu>
Date: Fri, 13 Nov 1992 19:19:52 GMT
Lines: 83


 In <1992Nov13.092141.26252@ringer.cs.utsa.edu>
 cbarkley@alex (The DarkMage) writes:


>I think that this whole business of making unregistered keys illegal is
>somewhat foolish.

 The reason I started this thread was to try to reasonably discuss
 and address opposing viewpoints.  It is just too easy for those
 of us who are involved with networks and cryptography to dismiss
 the other side out of hand.  Are these guys insane fascists?
 What can they possibly be thinking of?  How can *anyone* support
 this?  The best way to answer these questions is to try to see
 things from an opposing point of view.

 Once I started to respect opposition arguments, however, I was
 surprised to find that they may have valid reason for concern.
 The issue looks less "foolish" from the other side.  I suggest
 that you argue their case for a couple of days, and see.


>I would regard governmental restriction on the use of
>cryptography (including making it useless by requiring keys to be divulged)
>as intolerable.

 Yes, many of us have felt that way.  Apparently there is strong
 resolve on the other side, however, and the possibility of
 government restriction is there despite our wishes.  Thus, we
 need to understand their various positions to see if they are
 valid and, if not, how they can be countered in arguments
 directed at ordinary people.

 In the end, if we lose, you may find the situation "intolerable"
 but I doubt that would change it.

 After the courts have worked a few cases in which the defendant
 refuses to release his cipher keys and takes contempt instead
 of a real conviction, or where the lack of these records makes the
 case very much more "iffy" and complex, we may not find the courts
 very receptive to upholding our unfettered "right" to use
 cryptography.


>However, a court can simply demand access to either keys
>or plaintext the same way it demands any other information.  Refusal to
>comply with the demand constitutes contempt of court.  If you think that
the court's demand was unjustified, appeal it.

 This would mean that some other serious case would have to be made
 before the issue would get to the court so that the court could
 take action.  Certainly there are at least some cases which pretty
 much depend upon having access which may no longer be possible
 because of cryptography.

 How many are these cases?  How important?  Again, recall that we
 must convince ordinary (non-network, non-crypto) people that any
 regulation would be useless, expensive, counter-productive, or
 some other thing which would overwhelm law-enforcement arguments.

 Actually, we have been generally avoiding the "National Security"
 and other wiretap arguments here, because an ordinary person might
 be on our side of that issue, once they are informed that it could
 happen to them.  But even this equivocal level of support may be
 difficult to engage and more than we should expect.


>I don't believe a new
>policy is required in order to deal with our hypothetical child molester.

 You may be right.  But can you justify this position to yourself,
 if you seriously take the other point of view?  Could your arguments
 help win a legislative debate?

 Do we have any grand vision of freedom or the future or public
 advantage which would sway an ordinary person?  Can we argue that,
 despite law enforcement problems, we should have protection for at
 least a few years, so that we can see what open cryptography could
 become?  Can we make an ordinary person care?

 ---
 Terry Ritter   ritter@cactus.org

