Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!convex!darwin.sura.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!usc!news.service.uci.edu!ucivax!ofa123!Erik.Lindano
From: Erik.Lindano@ofa123.fidonet.org
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: New Encryption Method - A Challenge!
X-Sender: newtout 0.02 Nov  5 1992
Message-ID: <n0e49t@ofa123.fidonet.org>
Date: 13 Nov 92  00:59:36
Lines: 84

Writes lwloen@rchland.vnet.ibm.com (Larry Loen):
 
 > You could be asking for dozens to thousands of hours of 
 > work under the conditions you cite. 
 
 Really??!! It might take that long for a professional cryptanalyst
 to decrypt ONE SINGLE SHORT ENGLISH WORD in the midst of hundreds
 of English words whose plain and encrypted forms are both released?
 
 Do you mean that? If that's the case, what is the purpose of all
 the DES and RSA and PGP and all the other stuff? If it's so hard
 to decrypt ONE WORD encrypted by our "junky" and worthless method, 
 why do we need all those "non-junky" and "worthy" methods???? 
 
 > Successful designers know this and design to a stricter standard 
 > you and your friend have not learned. 
 
 Really? You know my friend? I never revealed his name... how do you
 know what "standards" he designs to? You've never seen his output.
 
 > But, a thousand hours is a thousand hours and before we spend 
 > it, we think we are entitled to do it under terms we find fairer.
 
 Ok, fair enough. Short of revealing how the program works, what 
 terms would you like? I offered ridiculously advantageous terms, 
 terms so easy and so open that I thought no one could criticize 
 them. But you want still better terms. OK, state your terms. What 
 are they? Two things we will not do: 1) we will not reveal the 
 solution ahead of time and 2) we will not reveal the algorithm.
 Other than those two, pick your terms! But out of self respect,
 I hope that the terms you choose have some resemblance to real-
 life conditions...
 
 > Moreover, in any real-world situation of any importance whatever, 
 > the algorithm WILL be known. 
 
 You are absolutely wrong.
 
 > Since we'd be providing a free service, shouldn't you show 
 > a little mercy?
 
 Yes, and not only mercy, but even sympathy, and honest consideration 
 of, and gratefulness for, your skill and your interest. But please
 don't disappoint us by calling us names just because we offered a
 challenge to you! That's unworthy of professionals.
 
 > Also, it is sometimes possible to invent an algorithm that 
 > encrypts but does not decrypt unambiguously.  In such a 
 > situation, cryptanalysis is futile, because it isn't a "real" 
 > crypto-system to begin with!
 
 This here algorithm encrypts and decrypts reliably and 
 unambiguously, every time. It's kind of uncanny, considering what 
 it has to do to... oops! I may have said too much already.
 
 > It could even be a very good system . . . that was invented fifty 
 > years ago or is a trivial variation of one invented fifty years 
 > ago.  
 
 Guaranteed not to have been invented fifty years ago. Promise.
 More like a new way of doing things. A new way of looking at things.
 Very intriguing and unusual. But blindingly fast! Absolutely 
 fascinating stuff. 
 
 > Since you and your friend have so far not bothered to learn the 
 > subject, would you at least take our word for what constitutes a 
 > fair challenge?  It's more or less in my FAQ.  If your friend will 
 > not read it, could I ask you to do so?  You seem a fair-minded 
 > person; only a little knowledge would allow you to ask for what 
 > you wish much more sensibly.
 
 This fairness business has a bearing on possible commercial use and,
 to that extent, I cannot abide by it for now. We don't want to 
 publish the algorithm at this time, but would like to see if its
 output is capable of resisting your analysis. For that purpose,
 we have simplified and even trivialized the challenge to the point
 where making it any easier would almost mean giving the solution 
 away.
 
 I have read your FAQ and am responding to it in another article.
 I have also sent it to my friend. 
 

--- Maximus 2.00
