Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!usc!news.service.uci.edu!ucivax!ofa123!Erik.Lindano
From: Erik.Lindano@ofa123.fidonet.org
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: New Encryption Method - A Challenge!
X-Sender: newtout 0.02 Nov  5 1992
Message-ID: <n0e48t@ofa123.fidonet.org>
Date: 13 Nov 92  00:57:32
Lines: 49

 
 Well, I said I wouldn't, but I went and read Loen's long FAQ post 
 anyway. Just to show that I am equanimous. According to what I glean 
 from his words, decrypting NuCrypt output should be an absolute, 
 total, unmitigated pea-soup task for any self-respecting 
 cryptologist (-grapher?). The challenge opened widely nearly every 
 fundamental avenue of attack, as mentioned in Loen's post: 
 
  1. "Cipher text only" attack. Unnecessary. See below.
      
  2. "Known plaintext" attack.  The NuCrypt challenge offers complete 
      availability of the original plaintext, except one word or two. 
      You are only asked to decrypt this ONE WORD or TWO, nothing 
      more! Plain English. Eight chars. Piece of cake.
      
  3. "Chosen plaintext" attack. Analysts have been invited to submit 
      plaintext of their own choosing - 99%!  Only ONE unknown word 
      would be ebedded in your own plaintext, and the whole then
      encrypted. You are only asked to decrypt this ONE WORD having
      both the plaintext and ciphertext of ALL OTHER WORDS. What 
      could be easier?
      
  [ The "replay attack" Loen mentions does not seem like a decryption 
    attack to me.  It defeats the purpose of encryption, but it does 
    not defeat the encryption itself. Couldn't one achieve exactly 
    the same effect by holding a gun to the cashier's head or smashing
    a truck into the ATM?  Hardly decryption.] 
      
  4. "Comparing multiple messages". This er.. "facility", was also 
     offered by the NuCrypt author.  10 encryptions of the same 
     plaintext, or even more, if desired.  Or even 10 encryptions 
     of 10 different English messages, all of which would be 
     disclosed with the exception of one or two words.  
     Yet, no takers.  
  
  5. NuCrypt is not a "one-time pad". 
  
  6. To make things REAL easy, you've been asked to suggest any other 
     input or test method of your own choosing.
  
 Ach, meine Damen un Herren... all these cryptomancers, I mean, 
 cryptopterists, and no takers!  No takers... shame.  People here 
 seem to have a very low cryptolibido.  Lack of cryptamines, maybe.  
 
 My friend says he's considering adding the cost of a roundript ticket
 to New York City to the wining-and-dining prize.
 

--- Maximus 2.00
