Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:11066 alt.privacy:4920 comp.org.eff.talk:11455
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy,comp.org.eff.talk
Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!uwm.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!sdd.hp.com!spool.mu.edu!umn.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!tcmay
From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)
Subject: Re: A Silver Bullet to Limit Crypto?
Message-ID: <1992Nov15.020208.11707@netcom.com>
Organization: Netcom - Online Communication Services  (408 241-9760 guest) 
X-Newsreader: Tin 1.1 PL5
References: <1992Nov14.235154.12617@news2.cis.umn.edu>
Date: Sun, 15 Nov 1992 02:02:08 GMT
Lines: 89


At the risk of providing more ammunition (no pun intended) for the key
registration advocates, let me describe some ways modern (recent)
crypto methods can in fact have a big effect on insider trading.


Charles Geyer (charlie@umnstat.stat.umn.edu) wrote:
: In article <1992Nov14.204107.6898@clarinet.com> brad@clarinet.com
: (Brad Templeton) writes:
: 
: > What is the effect of secure cryptography on insider trading?  With
: > routine cryptography, will it be possible to detect the transmission of
: > inside information?  Will stock traders have to live in bubbles, forbidden
: > to receive any encrypted messages?  Or instead would anybody wishing to
: > trade on the market be required to keep a database of all their keys, so
: > that in the event of a warrant, all their transactions could be cross-matched
: > and checked for inside information?
: 
: Stock traders who violate the insider trading rules now don't do so in
: plain view of the public.  They use bank accounts in the Bahamas, furtive
: meetings, and so forth.  Cryptography won't make any difference.

Some methods using modern crypto techniques (described in the various
"Crypto" and "EuroCrypt" proceedings, though not of course in terms of
"insider trading." But the protocols are the same.

First, an Ivan Boesky character no longer needs to directly contact
his accomplices, once a plan for bypassing the insider trading laws
is set up. Like modern spies who no longer need to arrange "drops" (in
tin cans, in trees, or in Jello boxes), he can instead communicate by
posting to widely read groups. He can use code in his posts
(essentially unstoppable by any method, except where authorities
intercept the posts and change a few words, a la WW 2 methods to catch
spies), he can pack encrypted messages in the least significant bits
of GIFs or audio clips he posts to the Net (look at the volume of
images in the the binary images groups!), or he can simply--and
perhaps too obviously--post encrypted messages in obscure test groups,
or even in sci.crypt ("Try to break this new cypher!"). And of course
he need not post to such widely monitored places as Usenet. There are
tens of thousands of BBSs that would-be inside traders can reach from
the comfort of their office...unless such calls to BBSs are
outlawed--which would not surprise me, actually--then these "drops"
are essentially unstoppable and will be hard to prosecute. All the
more so with so-called "zero knowledge" systems and their variants.

Second, in principle--though this is still in the future, just
barely--this Ivan Boesky character need not even know the physical
identity of his accomplice. Digital pseudonyms, using anonymous
remailers (which now exist, and are being used for "research" purposes
by some of us :-} ) and Chaum-style software mixes, can be used to put
buyers and sellers of information, whether financial information,
corporate secrets, or military secrets, into contact with each other,
but only in what John Draper has cleverly named "cypherspace." Payment
is more problmatic, as protocols for digital cash remain in the
research stage.

Third, recent unpublished results point to using zero knowledge-like
protocols for "deniable communication" between two parties. I can't
say more about this now, pending the publication in several months or so.


: The main tools for catching insider trading are (I think)
: 
:   (1) tips (including getting defendants to rat on their associates)

Collusion of your accomplice with the authorities (ratting) becomes
much harder with the systems I've just described.

:   (2) computer analysis of trading patterns

Traffic analysis is easily foiled with either hardware mixes
(described in a 1981 CACM paper by David Chaum) or software mixes,
which Chaum calls "DC-Nets." Or put even more simply, if the Ivan
Boesky character uses the simple codes and cyphers mentioned above,
detection is very difficult even if his lines are tapped.

: Cryptography won't affect either one.

See above.

It's a brave new world we're entering. Fasten your seatbelts.
-- 
..........................................................................
Timothy C. May         | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,  
tcmay@netcom.com       | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
408-688-5409           | knowledge, reputations, information markets, 
W.A.S.T.E.: Aptos, CA  | black markets, collapse of governments.
Higher Power: 2^756839 | PGP Public Key: awaiting Macintosh version.

