Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!usc!news.service.uci.edu!ucivax!ofa123!Erik.Lindano
From: Erik.Lindano@ofa123.fidonet.org
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: New Encryption - a Challenge
X-Sender: newtout 0.02 Nov 17 1992
Message-ID: <n0ee8t@ofa123.fidonet.org>
Date: 18 Nov 92  21:36:28
Lines: 48

Writes cme@ellisun.sw.stratus.com (Carl Ellison):
 
 > We are cryptologists (those of us who have experience in the 
 > field).  We have done cryptanalysis but we aren't the puzzle wonks 
 > who just love to get their teeth into some new ciphertext to 
 > break. 
 >
 
 OK. No sweat. The challenge is obviously not addressed to you then. 
 If you refuse to even look at the product of a new and unusual 
 encryption method, you are obviously not the intended subject of 
 our challenge.  You don't have the curiosity or initiative. You
 are not a suitable participant for us.
 
 > This phrasing is again that of a taunt.  You come across as a high 
 > school kid when you talk like this.  If you were to expect any 
 > help at all, this would guarantee your losing it.
 
 Carl, the world throws challenges everyone's way at every minute. 
 You cannot reasonably demand to exist in an environment where 
 unexpected challenges do not rise at every moment.  Mine was just 
 an added one.  Like all the others that come your way, you may: 
 1. refuse it; 2. accept it;  3. ignore it.  Your choice.
 
 > Any success in avoiding cryptanalysis from ciphertext only 
 > does not imply quality of the system.
 
 But one thing is absolutely certain: success in avoiding a given 
 cryptanalysis is a definite proof of ability to withstand it! 
 That's NOT debatable. I wonder whether it is this realization 
 that motivates some of the negative comments here.
 
 > Therefore, even if you were to find a puzzle hacker on this 
 > newsgroup who would like to take a stab at what you're 
 > suggesting, you would have proved nothing about the quality 
 > of the system (unless it got broken, of course :-).
 
 Interesting how you use denigrating terms against third parties to 
 suggest the appearance of worthlessnes in NuCrypt.  Old propaganda
 technique.  Effective for the general public but in _this_ 
 environment, definitely cheap.
 
 I am just a very simple person who'd like to see whether anyone 
 here, whatever his name, title or professional status, can break 
 our encryption.  A prize was offered to s/he who can. 
 

--- Maximus 2.00
