Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!uwm.edu!linac!uchinews!lucpum.it.luc.edu!lucpul.it.luc.edu!hmiller
From: hmiller@lucpul.it.luc.edu (Hugh Miller)
Subject: Info-PGP
Message-ID: <hmiller.722460371@lucpul.it.luc.edu>
Keywords: PGP Info-PGP 
Sender: root@lucpum.it.luc.edu (System PRIVILEGED Account)
Organization: Loyola University Chicago
Date: Sun, 22 Nov 1992 19:26:11 GMT
Lines: 43

    * Info-PGP Digest *

    Info-PGP Digest is a digested mailing list dedicated to discussion of
Philip Zimmermann's `Pretty Good Privacy' (PGP) public-key encryption program
for MS-DOS, Unix, VMS, Atari, Amiga, SPARC, Macintosh, and (hopefully) other
operating systems.  It is primarily intended for users on Internet sites
without access to the `alt.security.pgp' newsgroup.  Most submissions to
alt.security.pgp will be saved to Info-PGP, as well as occasional relevant
articles from sci.crypt or other newsgroups.  Info-PGP will also contain
mailings directed to the list address.
    To SUBSCRIBE to Info-PGP, please send a (polite) note to
info-pgp-request@lucpul.it.luc.edu.  This is not a mailserver; there is a
human being on the other end (at least until further notice), and bodiless
messages with "Subject:" lines reading "SUBSCRIBE INFO-PGP" will be ignored
until the sender develops manners.  To SUBMIT material for posting to
Info-PGP, please mail to info-pgp@lucpul.it.luc.edu.  In both cases, PLEASE
include your name and Internet "From:" address.  Submissions will be posted
pretty well as received, although the list maintainer / moderator reserves the
right to omit redundant messages, trim bloated headers & .sigs, and other such
minor piffle.  I will not be able to acknowledge submissions, nor, I regret,
will I be able to pass posts on to alt.security.pgp for those whose sites lack
access.
    Due to U.S. ITAR export restrictions on cryptographic software, I regret
that I cannot include postings containing actual source code (or compiled
binaries) of crypto routines in Info-PGP issues.  For the time being at least
I am including patches under the same ukase.  I regret having to do this, but
the law is the law.  If a non-US reader would like to handle that end of
things, perhaps run a "Info-PGP-Code" digest or somesuch, maybe this little
problem could be worked around.
    I have received a promise of some space on an anonymous-ftp'able Internet
site for back issues of Info-PGP Digest.  Full details as soon as they firm
up.
    Oh, yes: ALL CONTRIBUTIONS CONSIDERED AS PERSONAL COMMENTS; STANDARD
DISCLAIMERS APPLY.

Hugh Miller       | Asst. Prof. of Philosophy |  Loyola University Chicago
FAX: 312-508-2292 |    Voice: 312-508-2727    |  hmiller@lucpul.it.luc.edu
 Signed PGP v.2.0 public key certificate available by e-mail & finger(1)


-- 
Hugh Miller         | Dept. of Philosophy | Loyola University of Chicago
Voice: 312-508-2727 |  FAX: 312-508-2292  |    hmiller@lucpul.it.luc.edu
