Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!sdd.hp.com!usc!cs.utexas.edu!swrinde!news.dell.com!milano!cactus.org!ritter
From: ritter@cactus.org (Terry Ritter)
Subject: Re: Government regulation of cryptography
Message-ID: <1992Nov24.072447.14013@cactus.org>
Organization: Capital Area Central Texas UNIX Society, Austin, Tx
References: <19921123.193150.130@almaden.ibm.com>
Date: Tue, 24 Nov 1992 07:24:47 GMT
Lines: 53


 In <19921123.193150.130@almaden.ibm.com>
 jbs@watson.ibm.com (James B. Shearer) writes:


>         I believe much of the discussion of the key registration pro-
>posal has been ill-considered and based on a false understanding of
>what the government's objective is.
>         The government's main objective is to forstall a future in
>which common carriers routinely encrypt all traffic in a form the
>government cannot read.  Any other objectives are secondary and will be
>sacrificed to preserve the main objective.

 Putting aside, for the moment, just how you know what "the
 government's main objective" really is, and what they are willing
 to sacrifice to get it, this would actually be fine with me.

 As long as the government has no problem with automatic end-to-end
 cellular phone or personal telephone encryption, I could care less
 whether the common carriers encrypt or not.


>The government is well aware
>that, contrary to some statements in this group, effective crypto is
>sufficiently inconvenient that most people will not voluntarily use it.

 If the government is "well aware" of this, they are deceiving
 themselves.  Operating a consumer public-key-based encrypting phone
 could be as simple as calling someone, talking for a while to
 assure identities, then commanding an automatic public key exchange
 and switch to full cipher.  Subsequent calls could use the same
 keys, or send new ones.  The user need never handle or store
 any keys at all (although they may want to see the public parts for
 voice transfer or validation).  This is no-hassle secure end-to-end
 encryption, and I would be surprised if does not exist already.

 The trick is to make it cheap and yet effective, and to risk the
 government's wrath (despite the fact that this product is not now
 restricted *within the US market*).  I've thought about it a lot,
 I think it would be a dynamite product, and it would be a project
 I'd like to work on.

 In contrast to store-and-forward computer networks, real-time audio
 makes some forms of spoofing almost impossible, and the rest
 unlikely, because you get to assure identity before exchanging keys.
 The user also gets to read and validate the public parts at any
 time.  Spoofers might jump-in in real time and send false keys, but
 it would be really tough for them to hide and impersonate a random
 voice validation.

 ---
 Terry Ritter   ritter@cactus.org

