Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!spool.mu.edu!umn.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!rcain
From: rcain@netcom.com (Robert Cain)
Subject: Re: PGP and real criminals
Message-ID: <1992Nov25.050519.680@netcom.com>
Organization: Netcom - Online Communication Services  (408 241-9760 guest) 
References: <1939.517.uupcb@grapevine.lrk.ar.us>
Date: Wed, 25 Nov 1992 05:05:19 GMT
Lines: 42

john.eichler@grapevine.lrk.ar.us (John Eichler) writes:
: 
: Quite honestly, I would like to see a mechanism be inacted wherein if, in the
: opinion of a federal judge upon reviewing a particular set of police evidence,
: it was suspected that cryptography was being used to mask a criminal activity,
: that judge could issue a restraining order in effect for the person(s) who are
: engaging in such activities barring them from using cryptography until they
: could demonstrate beyond reasonable doubt that they were not engaged in such
: activities. In this case using cryptography after being injoined against doing
: so could serve as a sufficient reason to toss the person(s) in the can.

While I greatly appreciate the overall tone of your considerate posting,
is the above not equivalent to guilty until proven innocent?  I would
favor legislation that applied additional charges or penalties to crimes
committed using cryptography, and stiff ones at that, but would much
rather the crime be proven first and the enabling use of cryptography
second.

: 
: Under such an arrangement, those of us who would like to engage in encrypting
: messages to others would be free to do so until there was a valid suspicion
: that we were ingaged in illegal activity.  This is a very directed approach
: and would raise the possibility of lawsuits arising against the LE people
: should they try to curtail encryption without a valid reason.

Suspicion should not be sufficient reason to curtail any activity.  I would
accept a reasonable cause argument if that could be given some objective 
basis other than suspicion.  Under the reasonable cause argument, completely
innocent people are being stripped legally of all their possesions (it is
called civil forfiture) with no recovery recourse should they be shown
completely innocent. There are hundreds of such documented cases.  Write
your congressman. :-)

Bob
-- 
Bob Cain    rcain@netcom.com   408-358-2007

"There are some strings.  They're just not attached."
                                                    Victoria Roberts


               PGP 1.0 or 2.0 public key available on request.
