Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!uunet!pipex!warwick!pavo.csi.cam.ac.uk!camcus!pc123
From: pc123@cus.cam.ac.uk (Pete Chown)
Subject: Alternatives to RSA for public key cryptography
Message-ID: <PC123.92Nov25122044@grus.cus.cam.ac.uk>
Sender: news@infodev.cam.ac.uk (USENET news)
Nntp-Posting-Host: grus.cus.cam.ac.uk
Organization: U of Cambridge, England
Date: Wed, 25 Nov 1992 12:20:48 GMT
Lines: 35


In view of the patent on the use of RSA in the US, I was thinking
about possible alternatives.  I have a scheme which, although it is
not strictly a public key system, gives very similar effects.  The
result of using this system is that every pair of users share a common
secret without the need to store a key separately for every person you
might want to talk to.  Breaking this scheme seems to be equivalent to
breaking a Diffie-Hellman interaction.

First, let me emphasise the main disadvantages of using Diffie-Hellman
key exchange.  Firstly you can be spoofed - if the person you are
talking to is not who you think he is, you can be tricked into giving
away information.  Thus Diffie-Hellman does not provide for
authentication, and so can only be used against passive eavesdroppers.

Secondly Diffie-Hellman requires several exchanges of messages.
Consequently you couldn't encrypt an e-mail message using a
Diffie-Hellman derived common secret.

So my idea was this.  Everyone wishing to take part in the scheme
agrees a single prime modulus P and a generator g.  Then each person
chooses, secretly, an exponent e.  They then publish g^e mod P.

Now each pair of entities share a common secret.  If the exponents
chosen by the two entities are e1 and e2, then (g^e1)^e2 mod P is
known to both.  For an outsider to determine it is equivalent in
complexity to breaking any Diffie-Hellman interaction.

There is quite likely to be something obvious wrong with the above,
since it seems almost too easy!  If I have made a silly mistake,
please flame away...
--
---------------------------------------------+ "A tight hat can be stretched.
Pete Chown, pc123@phx.cam.ac.uk (Internet)   |  First damp the head with steam
            pc123@uk.ac.cam.phx (Janet :-)  -+  from a boiling kettle."
