Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:11336 alt.privacy:5004 comp.org.eff.talk:11549
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy,comp.org.eff.talk
Path: msuinfo!caen!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!The-Star.honeywell.com!umn.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!tcmay
From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)
Subject: Scenario to Ban Cash Transactions?
Message-ID: <1992Nov25.213542.25325@netcom.com>
Organization: Netcom - Online Communication Services  (408 241-9760 guest) 
X-Newsreader: Tin 1.1 PL5
Date: Wed, 25 Nov 1992 21:35:42 GMT

(The following message was first posted to two private mailing lists,
where it generated a lot of discussion and calls for a wider
distribution. I apologize to those reading sci.crypt, for example, who
feel that discussions of key registration, the Digital Telephony Bill,
and other issues involving protocols and communications are not
appropriate topics. But like many other folks who commented during the
key registration debate, I consider these issues an essential part of
the crypto world.)


SCENARIO FOR A BAN ON CASH TRANSACTIONS

The recent discussions about black markets, loss of tax revenues, and
restrictions on the use of encryption lead me to speculate that moves
may be afoot to ban or severely restrict the use of cash. 

Such talk of a "cashless society" comes up periodically, with some
people taking a religious/conspiratorial view (e.g., electronic bank
accounts tatooed on our foreheads, fulfilling the "mark of the Beast"
prophecy) and others talking about how the "international bankers"
have already selected a system (to be implemented in a national
emergency, perhaps via an Emergency Order following a series of bank
collapses). But just because paranoids believe something doesn't make
it implausible.

In the light of the several proposals, pending bills, and "trial
balloons" to limit the use of strong cryptography and to limit
communications security and privacy, I suspect a deeper plan is
brewing to place major limits on the use of cash, possibly even the
outright banning of cash in the United States (adn perhaps other
countries, cooperatively), with transactions mediated with electronic
cards, be they ATM, credit, debit, etc. cards. (Recall the talk of
providing all welfare, AFDC, and Social Security recipients with cards
which would provide their benefits, mainly to reduce the paperwork,
lost checks, and the growing problem of stolen checks.)

Also, many of the arguments made by law enforcement about placing
limits on cryptography use apply as well to cash (and to the current
postal system, and to private ownership of copiers and printer, and
to....but I digress). With most financial transactions either
reportable by banks, or going through credit card clearinghouses, the
argument can be made to simply close the remaining loophole (cash),

Some putative benefits of banning cash and replacing it with
electronic versions (such as debit cards, either privately issued or
issued by the government):

1. Faster and more complete tax collection, with the tax authorities
an implicit partner in all economic transactions (save for black
markets, but I'll discuss that later). The "implicit partner" bit
corresponds closely  to some of the key registration proposals,
especially Dorothy Denning's so-called "copper balloon" proposal. And
note that various levels of government are already involved in sales
transactions, such as sales tax, gun sales, and so forth. Not in real
time, of course, but the speeds of transactions are rising rapidly,
and VISA-card transactions are certainly handled in real time.

The "faster" part of tax collection will be a one-shot gain, just as
the witholding tax system instituted in WWII as an emergency program
was a one-shot benefit. But such an immediate gain may be quite
attractive to planners faced with rapidly escalating national debt.
($4.5 trillion, increasing by at least $400 billion a year...more if
the "IOUs" for social security are considered)

The "more complete" part will be an attempt to recapture taxes now
lost to the underground, or barter, economy. "Serious" black
marketeers, or dealers in illegal substances, will of course not be
greatly affected, but a shift to purely electronic money will hurt
their ability to move money (unless they control the banks and S&Ls,
as may be the case....but that's another story).

2. A general closing of the underground economy, separate from the
issue of recapturing lost tax revenues. As the underground economy
increases, especially to the levels seen in other countries, pressures
to "close the loopholes" (= cash) may mount. The failing "War on
Drugs" has already been used to justify many serious abridgements of
basic rights; applying the same logic to creating a cashless society
seems to be the next step.

3. "Welfare reform" by restricting the allowable expenditures that can
be made. For example, a welfare, food stamp, or AFDC recipient could
be barred from buying liquor with his or her "money." Electronic money
need not be "fungible," in the sense that all forms are
interchangeable--it is fairly easy to attach various restrictions to
the electronic databases which hold the money.

Such restrictions would meet with a lot of popular support, and so
could undercut the protests a bit. (Support may also come from the
"national identity card" aspects, as such a card would help to solve
the problem of illegal immigrants and those who move to jurisdictions
with better welfare benefits. I'm not _approving_ of this, merely
pointing out a source of support for "welfare cards.")

(Bypasses can still be done, as with food stamps which are sold in
exchange for booze. Ironically, the flourishing black market in food
stamps is a motivation for going to an "electronic welfare card,"
which is being talked about and which is an obvious precursor step to
the eventual ban on paper money cash.)

And as I mentioned at the start, many efficiencies would be gained by
issuing cards to welfare, AFDC, and Social Security recipients.
Reduced fraud (deceased recipients, forgeries), theft (of checks out
of mailboxes), and paperwork (lost checks, mailing of the checks) are
all incentives for such a conversion. 

Some have mentioned the illiterate/innumerate population as an
argument against a cashless society. Actually, paying with plastic
requires less reading and writing than paying by check, by money
order, or even by cash (in most cases). Adding voice synthesis, for
example, to card readers in supemarket checkout stands could even be a
sellng point for the blind or disabled. (Supermarkets are a good
example: here in Northern California, nearly every supermarket accepts
ATM cards and credit cards, thus making nearly all cash superfluous.)

4. Fears of the growing ease of counterfeiting may push this shift
along. Color copiers are now so good that nearly undetectable
counterfeiting of U.S. currency is straightforward. Attempts to embed
conductive threads, holograms, etc., are helping, but the longterm
future is not bright for physical money (excluding gold, which has its
own problems that I won't discuss here).

(Note that foreign printing presses can quite easily produce excellent
counterfeit currency, for use in destabilizing foreign regimes, in
economic warfare, etc. Apparently the U.S. has supported the flooding
of Iraq with counterfeit currency. And Iraq has supposedly printed
vast amounts of counterfeit U.S. and European currency. Digital money,
cryptographically protected, is about the only protection against this
threat.)

5. If the government controls and sets the protocols for electronic
money, this gives them de facto control over encryption systems and
protocols.  Use of non-approved protocols may be considered ipso facto
proof of money laundering, black marketeering, and tax evasion.

The Dennning/Rivest key registration proposal appears to be some
advance planning for creating a system in which the government is
effectively a third party in all communications (= transactions). (I
am not arguing that either Denning or Rivest, or others, are plotting
this. I'm just noting the logical direction such proposals carry us to.)

I suggest we look at all such key registration proposals in this light.

6. More speculatively, the elimination of cash may be used to prop up
U.S. banks, which many feel are facing a rocky future. By making the
banks the "mediators" of such a government-mandated electronic money
system, this both "privatizes" the system and provides a new revenue
stream for these powerful lobbying interests. For example, your local
bank may issue the debit card and may take, say, 0.5% of every
transaction. The government might then take, say, 3% of every
transaction as its "cut." (The actual details are likely to be
hideously complex, along the lines of the V.A.T. taxes of Europe, and
so this example should only be taken as a rough example of what could
happen.)


Now it has long been clear to me that the future of money lies in
electronic form, cryptographically protected. The prolific use of
credit cards for mail-order purchases points to the need for a purely
electronic form of usable money, as do systems like AMIX (which uses
VISA-type credits and debits). The issue is who creates this system,
and what controls exist.

It seems highly unlikely that the U.S. government will allow
"competing currencies" (one form of digital money, and arguably what
we already have with various tradable financial instruments, which
rise and fall in value depending on various forces) to spring into
being, at least not in forms that are truly like cash. The "digital
cash" schemes of David Chaum, which can provide payer and payee
anonymity and untraceability, are in direct conflict with key
registration schemes discussed so far (in fact, it seems clear that a
key registration scheme requiring the registration of all private keys
in a P-K system would for all practical purposes block the deployment
of Chaum-style digital money systems).

However, if the government creates this cashless society, then the government
will have unprecedented control over nearly all aspects of our lives.
All transactions, no matter how trivial, will be recorded, stored, and
subject to analysis. A complete audit trail of all purchases, food
preferences, entertainment choices, liasons with others, etc., will
exist. This is the concern David Chaum has eloquently raised, and
which he has been dealing with (partially) with his digital money and
untraceable transaction systems.

Furthermore, transactions which are deemed to be politically
incorrect, and there are dozens of obvious examples to choose from,
can be _outlawed_ by the mere typing of a few lines of instructions into
the appropriate data bases. (For example, someone arrested for DUI
tries to buy some beer..."Your transaction cannot be completed. Have a
nice day."  appears on the cash register. Or a pregnant woman--and
under computerized national health care systems this will all be
known--tries to buy some cigarettes....)

Reread John Brunner's amazingly prescient "Shockwave Rider" for some
visions of a fully-computerized society.

This trend toward a cashless society, controlled by the government,
represents the greatest threat to our libery and our future I can
imagine.

Make no mistake, a government-run cashless society will be worse that
Orwell's worst.


--Tim May

-- 
..........................................................................
Timothy C. May         | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,  
tcmay@netcom.com       | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
408-688-5409           | knowledge, reputations, information markets, 
W.A.S.T.E.: Aptos, CA  | black markets, collapse of governments.
Higher Power: 2^756839 | PGP Public Key: by arrangement.



-- 
..........................................................................
Timothy C. May         | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,  
tcmay@netcom.com       | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
408-688-5409           | knowledge, reputations, information markets, 
W.A.S.T.E.: Aptos, CA  | black markets, collapse of governments.
Higher Power: 2^756839 | PGP Public Key: by arrangement.

