Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!milano!cactus.org!ritter
From: ritter@cactus.org (Terry Ritter)
Subject: Re: Government regulation of cryptography
Message-ID: <1992Nov25.210230.969@cactus.org>
Organization: Capital Area Central Texas UNIX Society, Austin, Tx
References: <19921123.193150.130@almaden.ibm.com> <1992Nov25.151030.8249@rchland.ibm.com>
Date: Wed, 25 Nov 1992 21:02:30 GMT
Lines: 125


 In <1992Nov25.151030.8249@rchland.ibm.com>
 lwloen@rchland.vnet.ibm.com (Larry Loen) writes:


>History shows that people won't even do this much.  Consider the
>equivalent.  Do you have a large data processing system available to
>you?  Does it have RSA or DES installed?  How often do _you_, a
>knowledgable person, use them?

 Secure phones can be *much* easier to use than cryptography on
 computers; see below:


>The other major problem is to make it automatic and hidden.  We may love
>ciphers and cryptography, but nearly everyone else considers it "overhead"
>and "in the way". [...]

>Telephones are a special problem, because even though we probably are
>close to being able to include the required hardware for low cost,
>I don't know how to do the key exchange without some user involvement
>and I don't think very many folks are interested.

 How to do an uninvolved key exchange:

 First, consider contacting a new number:

    1) pick up phone, manually dial number
    2) converse to ascertain identity, then push "secure"

       a. the phone takes a key pair off an internal stack
       b. sends one key by some digital protocol (this is the
          "public" key one-way)
       c. receives a public key from the far end by a similar
          protocol
       d. the phone stores both public keys under the next
          "channel number" so that they will not be re-sent

       (the actual ciphering takes place with a one-key cipher
       under random session keys exchanged under public-key
       technology)

 Next, consider contacting a previously-established number:

    1) pick up phone
    2) push "search" to manually scan through phone number list
       (possibly using "fwd" or "back" etc.) then push "dial"
       to indicate desired channel, OR
       push "channel," enter channel number, then push "dial"

       a. the phone dials the number
       b. the phone automatically tries to establish secure
          mode using the known keys, and sounds alarm if this
          does not happen

    (in general, after dialing a number once, it would only be
    necessary to auto-dial to get an automatic secure channel)

 At any time, push "new key" to take a new key pair off the unused
 key stack and establish a new public key (for that channel).

 At any time, verbally announce the displayed public keys to the
 far end for confirmation.

 At any time, push "normal" to cease ciphering, or "secure"  to
 resume (with new session keys).

 At any time, hang up.


 (Even if some manufacturer reads this and agrees with it, I expect
 that the phone they eventually shove out the door will inevitably
 be hard to use.  Reading and agreeing is just not the same as
 solving all the little problems to make simplicity happen.)


>Your public key suggestion has merit in that environment, but if we
>have to tell the government, we end up giving them the key to every
>encrypted conversation we ever had,

 On that equipment, basically yes.  We could have a more complex
 arrangement, but if the session keys are going into a write-once
 chip, as long as that chip stays in your phone or in your records,
 you are in control.  When the chip fills up, you need a new one,
 just like a battery.  Keep the phone and chip-logs secure, and
 any recorded wiretapped conversations will be secure.

 Rather than memorizing or otherwise protecting keys (which most
 people will not do), simply protect the instrument and the logs
 (which is what people do anyway, to prevent theft).  (Obviously,
 serious secrets also require serious physical security; a secure
 phone is not particularly helpful if the room is bugged, but,
 with a cellular phone, one could take a walk around the
 neighborhood.)


>because I doubt if anyone ever
>changes their public/private key pair.  Too much hassle to set up.

 Too much hassle, perhaps, with computer-based crypto.  Not much
 hassle at all on a properly-designed secure phone.  Just push
 a button.


>So, if the government wants to go fishing, all they need is an excuse to
>subpoena my key, and they get all the illicitly recorded stuff.  If I do
>anything controversial enough to catch their attention, they'll find an
>excuse.

 My definition of a "fishing expedition" is wiretapping without
 a warrant, in the hope of collecting information useful in an
 investigation, with no expectation of using those wiretaps in
 court.  This is illegal wiretapping, which I expect is not
 particularly unusual, but, because it *is* illegal, few who
 know will be willing to say much about it or confirm the extent
 of the problem.

 *After* the government has obtained sufficient evidence to get
 a warrant to access your records, then they probably *would*
 get to "fish" around to see if any apply.  That is what "search"
 *means*.

 ---
 Terry Ritter   ritter@cactus.org

