Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!spool.mu.edu!yale.edu!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Subject: Cellular STU-III
Message-ID: <921126181535.062243@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Date: Thu, 26 Nov 1992 18:15:00 GMT
Lines: 37


Bell Atlantic Mobile Systems Inc. plans to offer support for STU-III
cellular phones.  As I understand it, the air side of the call can be
encrypted even if the land side is to an open phone.  Either the air
side or the land side phone can invoke the service with a command.

The purpose of this support is to "sign up federal users of secure
(cellular) phones."

Of course, you can already use STU-III end-to-end, but that requires
that both the air side and land side phones be STU-III equipped.  The
new service recognizes that since the air side link is the most vulnerable
to eavesdropping (cost of attack in the low hundreds of dollars,
listeners in a metropolitan area numbered in the tens to low hundreds)
it makes sense to encrypt that part of the connection even when talking to
an unsecure telephone.


One more example of the government's ambivalence about private
communications.  The present generation of cellular phones is
approaching end of life, a victim of its own success.  The next
generation will be fully digital.  This will raise the cost of an
eavesdropping attack at least marginally.  However, the opportunity to
use only secret codes is both obvious and small.  That is if we miss
this window, it may not come again for a generation.

We missed it the last time in part because of government intervention.  We can
expect such resistance again.  The last time the public was not
aware of the opportunity.   This time we must make sure that they are
aware.  As many here have suggested, they may be prepared to surrender
their privacy in the name of law and order.  If so, then so be it.
However, they should at least be given a say.  The decision should not
be made in their name by a paternalistic bureaucracy.

William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104; New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
1-0-ATT-0-700-WMURRAY; WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
