Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:11458 talk.politics.misc:156807
Path: msuinfo!caen!uunet!olivea!charnel!sifon!thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu!sobeco!rcorco!elevia!alain
From: alain@elevia.uniforum.qc.ca (W. A. Simon)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.misc
Subject: registering our dissent
Message-ID: <23986@elevia.uniforum.qc.ca>
Date: 27 Nov 92 23:17:14 GMT
Lines: 113

What

  The use of cryptographic tools, thanks to the availability
  of computer technology, is now getting widespread.

  There is a movement afoot aiming to restrict our right to
  encrypt our communications.  At least, there is the will
  to help the government (always worried that its citizens
  could have secrets) in penetrating our systems.

  One such proposal is that we should use an authorized
  cryptographic system and that we register our private key
  with a specialized bureaucracy.

  Politicians want us to register.  Law enforcement agencies
  want us to register.  The intelligence establishment wants
  us to register.  The Taxman wants us to register.  Dr Dorothy
  Denning and Brad Knowles see nothing wrong with registration;
  Au contraire.

Why

  To fight crime some say.
  For national security some say.

  It is important to remark right off that, until now, the law
  had quasi unlimited access to our secrets.  This was not a
  legally obtained right, it was a fact of life with which the
  courts had little choice but to either ignore it or cooperate
  with it.

  (It is also just as important to note that cryptography only
  protect a small part of our privacy.  Everything else is just
  like it was...)

Two questions

  In the name of crime fighting and national security, where do
  we stop?  Do LE officers play by the same rules as we do or not?
  The answers to these questions are crucial to the whole argument.

Crime fighting

  I have no dispute with police officers wanting all the tools
  and powers required to accomplish their mission.  It is their
  duty to ask for them.  Our system is well designed in that if
  we all mind the store, nothing will go wrong.  By this, I mean
  we have checks and balances; as police officers require new
  means, our elected officials must balance these needs against
  the guidelines set out in the Constitution: our needs as a
  people.  It is therefore OUR decision, expressed through the
  our elected leaders.  We should "educate" them on the subject.
 
  There is nothing in the law that garantees law enforcement
  agents the right to eavesdrop.  It was nice while it lasted
  but nobody said it was a constitutional right.  In fact, au
  contraire, even criminals were entitled to a constitutional
  garantee that they would be free of such intrusion.  When
  the right to snoop was obtained through a warrant, it often
  meant that illegal snooping had uncovered enough dirt to
  obtain legal probable cause in the first place.  I don't give
  a hoot about the rights of the criminals, but I can't take
  it away from them without giving mine up.

  If we accept the proposition that law enforcement should be
  freed from the constraints of law, we open a door on great
  abuses.  If law enforcement is an overriding concern, then
  we should implant an electronic tap into everyone's brain.
  By accepting the current trend regarding crypto technology
  we are making future demands for such implants legitimate,
  when they become feasable.  If you think I am overstating
  my point, try to tell me where you draw the line.

  LE can't be freed from the usual constraints of peacefull and
  orderly society.  Exemption from the law can only result in
  more Tonton Macoutes and more Brown Shirts.

  As long as we live by the code of presumption of innocence, we
  must reject all arguments that begin with "suppose a very
  nasty criminal has a very dark secret...".

National security

  The rationale for the whole notion of national security was
  that our freedom was threatened by authoritarian regimes
  intent on taking over the world, and repressing the freedom
  of everyone.  We had to fight them and a few sacrifices were
  expected.

  Now that we have lost our main ennemy and that our government
  is trying to take our freedom away, does it mean the ennemy won
  and that they now are the government?

  It probably only means that some bureaucrat made the case that in
  order to prevent the rape of virgins we should fuck them first.
  We should not be surprised that there was a politician willing
  to lend an ear to this garbage.

Conclusion

  Our princes are trying once more to take away what we have won
  over the years: some freedom.  Their attempt to deprive us from
  our privacy is not just unpalatable, it is downright stupid
  because it is too easy to work around it (I, and other, have
  proposed ways to do this).  The law itself, if it were to become
  law, is not the dangerous thing here; what is dangerous is to
  accept that such a law could be passed.



--
 Alain
 [ ... usual disclaimer... ]
