Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!spool.mu.edu!yale.edu!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Subject: On Banning Currency
Message-ID: <921128044424.650908@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Date: Sat, 28 Nov 1992 04:44:00 GMT
Lines: 43


>I think the cashless society will happen. It's just another technology that
>(supposedly) makes our life easier, is profitable for those who provide
it,
>and makes the government happy by providing more monitoring.

I think history is against you.  There is as much barter in
the world as there ever was.  There is as much use of gold
coin as ever.  Currency did not replace these.  Neither did
checks replace currency or credit cards replace checks.
We did speak for a decade or more of the "Checkless Society"
but there are more checks now then than were then, though
many of us now pay electronically.

What the history of trade seems to suggest is that new
technology facilitates a net new growth in commerce, but
has almost no impact on the old.  

Incidentally, the transition usually takes a generation.
My mother was essentially a currency person.  She would
not have her social security benefit deposited to her
bank, and indeed cashed the check at the grocery store.

On the other hand, my fifteen year old believes that money
comes from a hole in the side of the bank.  He took the money
out at 18 months, pushed the buttons at four and got his
own card when he was nine.

With a few exceptions these changes have taken place without
much government intervention or initiative.  On the other
hand, the government is intensely interested and involved.
The U.S. Department of Treasury has a constant planning
activity and many contingency plans.  These plans are the
subject of intense speculation and rumor.   

The identification of the American people with their 
currency as the incarnation of money and the role of the
U.S. $100- bill in international crime and commerce leaves
them with little freedom to do anything.  

William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104; New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
1-0-ATT-0-700-WMURRAY; WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
