Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:11462 comp.org.eff.talk:11598 alt.privacy:5052
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy
Path: msuinfo!caen!uunet!mcsun!news.funet.fi!ajk.tele.fi!funic!nntp.hut.fi!usenet
From: jkp@cs.HUT.FI (Jyrki Kuoppala)
Subject: Re: Scenario to Ban Cash Transactions?
In-Reply-To: ctdonath@mothra.syr.EDU (Carl T. Donath)
Message-ID: <1992Nov28.080550.12388@nntp.hut.fi>
Sender: usenet@nntp.hut.fi (Usenet pseudouser id)
Nntp-Posting-Host: lusmu.cs.hut.fi
Reply-To: jkp@cs.HUT.FI (Jyrki Kuoppala)
Organization: Helsinki University of Technology, Finland
References: <1992Nov25.213542.25325@netcom.com> <CTDONATH.92Nov27200116@mothra.syr.EDU>
Date: Sat, 28 Nov 1992 08:05:50 GMT
Lines: 49

In article <CTDONATH.92Nov27200116@mothra.syr.EDU>, ctdonath@mothra (Carl T. Donath) writes:
>Scenario: You have to go somewhere _right_now_. You are broke.  The car needs
>gas to get there. You have your plastic. Wouldn't you be happier if the
>gas station on the corner had a POS cash/credit-card reader?

It has, as much over 50 % of them does.  I think also much over 50 %
(a guesstime something like perhaps 80 % for both gas stations and
shops) of food stores and other consumer item sale points, restaurants
etc. take cards.  Some taxes take cards.

Cards used are bank cards, where the money is debited on the same day
(or as soon as the data gets to the bank), and then credit cards like
VISA which are billed later.

The POS terminals call the bank by phone at night to transfer the data
collected during the day.

By the way, most banks also provide access via modem lines, and many
people use modems only for paying their bills.  I think all banks have
national on-line systems so they always know your account balance.
The ATMs of all banks are connected together, so you can get cash from
any ATM (and there are often three or four ATMs on the same street
corner, paid currently by the taxpayers but that's another story).  At
least two banks also have systems with automates you can pay bills
with, much like the system via modem lines.  In addition to modem
lines, banks market leased-line connections to workplaces - businesses
connect their internal systems to the bank's systems so the employers
don't have to waste time walking to the bank and back.

But what's the point?  All places still take cash - people use cards
because they're available and easy to use.  There's legislation which
criminalizes collection of data "just because" - well, of course
there's the "state security" exclusion.  I haven't heard of the data
used in law enforcement, other than a bank ATM videotape being used to
get evidence to a crime unconnected with the ATM.  Yes, it's very
vulnerable technology with regards to privacy, but also cash can be
scanned for the bill numbers.

By the way, some plans about national electronic money with smart
cards have been expressed, and Bank of Finland has made public a
promise to pay every citizen a smart card.  No mention of whether it'd
be Chaum-style where privacy is taken into account or something big
brother -like.  Probably the latter, but things are not so bad here,
it might be possible to do something about it.

//Jyrki

PS. re: Big Brother visions - perhaps someone should study Singapore,
isn't it quite far ahead of the rest of the world in this respect?
