Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!jvnc.net!yale.edu!qt.cs.utexas.edu!cs.utexas.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!engr.uark.edu!mbox.ualr.edu!grapevine!john.eichler
From: john.eichler@grapevine.lrk.ar.us (John Eichler)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: PGP and real criminals
Message-ID: <1939.517.uupcb@grapevine.lrk.ar.us>
Date: 24 Nov 92 15:56:00 GMT
Reply-To: john.eichler@grapevine.lrk.ar.us (John Eichler)
Organization: The GrapeVine BBS *** N. Little Rock, AR *** (501) 753-8121
Lines: 51


>Message-ID: <1erd71INN5i5@transfer.stratus.com> From: (Carl Ellison)

>In article <1579.517.uupcb@grapevine.lrk.ar.us> (John Eichler) writes:
>>I, for one, agree completely with Mr. Fu.  Once a person has been convicted
>>of a crime the government could outlaw their use of cryptography as a means
>>of communication.
>
>So when my company switches over to encrypting all network and inter-office
>telephone traffic, we wouldn't be allowed to hire any person who has served
>his time and wants to go straight????

Valid point Mr. Ellison.  Maybe a differentiation should be made between
personal use of encryption and business use.  Not being a criminal myself I
don't really know how lines are drawn. Suppose I was living in a State where
it was illegal for a convicted felon to possess a handgun (for example). Then
consider a situation wherein this person applied for a job as a night watchman
where performing his job it was necessary for him to carry a handgun. Also
assume that this person really wanted to 'go straight'. Would they be able to
get a permit for carrying such a weapon on the job or not?  Is this not a
valid comparison.

The issues presented here are not easy ones to resolve.  I make no pretense
at having answers for such issues, only comments and some personal opinions.
Naturally there is no way that I, or I assume you, wish to deny an individual
who has strayed in the past the opportunity to change their life in the
future for the better.

The thing that would disturb me is if a convicted felon who has previously
used cryptography to hide illegal acts in the past were to be given free
access to such methods in the future.

Quite honestly, I would like to see a mechanism be inacted wherein if, in the
opinion of a federal judge upon reviewing a particular set of police evidence,
it was suspected that cryptography was being used to mask a criminal activity,
that judge could issue a restraining order in effect for the person(s) who are
engaging in such activities barring them from using cryptography until they
could demonstrate beyond reasonable doubt that they were not engaged in such
activities. In this case using cryptography after being injoined against doing
so could serve as a sufficient reason to toss the person(s) in the can.

Under such an arrangement, those of us who would like to engage in encrypting
messages to others would be free to do so until there was a valid suspicion
that we were ingaged in illegal activity.  This is a very directed approach
and would raise the possibility of lawsuits arising against the LE people
should they try to curtail encryption without a valid reason.

John
---
 . SM 1.06 ----- . Email: john.eichler@grapevine.lrk.ar.us
                                            
