Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:11499 talk.politics.misc:156971
Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!sun-barr!olivea!charnel!sifon!CC.UMontreal.CA!IRO.UMontreal.CA!matrox!rcorco!elevia!alain
From: alain@elevia.uniforum.qc.ca (W. A. Simon)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.misc,can.politics
Subject: Re: registering our dissent
Summary: welcome to my nightmare
Message-ID: <23988@elevia.uniforum.qc.ca>
Date: 29 Nov 92 13:36:52 GMT
References: <23986@elevia.uniforum.qc.ca>
Lines: 90

In <23986@elevia.uniforum.qc.ca>
I write about a disturbing trend.
So far, the only part of the piece
that captured the net's fancy was
the first sentence of the paragraph
before last:

> It probably only means that some bureaucrat made the case that in
> order to prevent the rape of virgins we should fuck them first.
> We should not be surprised that there was a politician willing
> to lend an ear to this garbage.
[ I know, it is uncooth to quote oneself; too bad ]

It is the least significant in that it describes a bureaucratic
mind set which is well documented and widely known.  But the word
"fuck" seems to have magical qualities, a bit like "Shazzam" and
"Abracadabra" and other "Open Sesame".  Could it be true that we
have the governments we deserve?

More significant, and entirely ignored, are the two questions:

> In the name of crime fighting and national security, where do
> we stop?  Do LE officers play by the same rules as we do or not?

John Gilmore reminded us (in a separate thread) that we can't assume
good people will always be in charge.  In fact, if history is any
indication, good people are few and far between at the helm of nations
and/or their agencies.  Why are we so intent on giving them the tools
for our subjugation?

A typical answer is:
> To fight crime... 

The weirdest attitude is that of Dr Denning and Mr Knowles; two
intelligent, thoughtfull, well educated individuals who say,
essentially, that "we should give away a lot of existing freedom
for a bit of ungaranteed safety".  (Rhetorical question:  Why don't
universities teach history?)

Let's consider the consequences of their approach:

> If law enforcement is an overriding concern, then
> we should implant an electronic tap into everyone's brain.
> By accepting the current trend regarding crypto technology
> we are making future demands for such implants legitimate,
> when they become feasable.  If you think I am overstating
> my point, try to tell me where you draw the line.

I am yet to see any attempt at all to answer this apparently
far fetched point.  Any law that requires drawing a reasonnable
line invites abuses.  Any social philosophy that is based on
fear mongering mandates abuses.

Another typical answer is:
> For national security...

Then can't we legitimately ask:
>   Now that we have lost our main ennemy and that our government
>   is trying to take our freedom away, does it mean the ennemy won
>   and that they now are the government?

Denning, Knowles et all, can you tell me that "it can't happen here"?
Or have you forgotten Hoover, McCarthy, etc...?  Have you forgotten
Reagan and Nixon who both started as snitches and both became
president?

Life in society is a perpetual balancing act between the interests
of the group and the interest of individuals.  There is continued
bargaining of freedom for security.  Much too quickly, the dealing
is distorted by a third player: the institutions.  The institutions
proclaim their role as defender of society, and in the name of this
instant deity they take both security and freedom away from the
individuals.

It comes in the shape of censure, prohibition, and laws making up
crimes of opinion and crimes of lifestyle.  The intitutions are
our governments and their agencies, our schools, our churches, and
the people who populate and animate these organizations.  These
people dedicate their time and their efforts to making themselves
our Princes.  They may or may not be motivated by high principles,
but they always want to tell us how to live, and think.

Giving in on cryptography is to accept that they have a right to
directing and controlling our thoughts.



--
 Alain
 [ ... usual disclaimer... ]
