Path: msuinfo!caen!uunet!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!hoptoad!gnu
From: gnu@hoptoad.uucp (John Gilmore)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: NSA FOIA suit over "classified" documents found in public libraries
Message-ID: <39331@hoptoad.uucp>
Date: 29 Nov 92 09:30:52 GMT
References: <39279@hoptoad.uucp> <1992Nov27.062701.11355@ulysses.att.com> <24304@alice.att.com>
Organization: Cygnus Support, Palo Alto
Lines: 52

reeds@alice.att.com (Jim Reeds) wrote:
> If it is Friedman, I wonder how many people will actually read the whole
> thing, and what they will gain from it.  

I don't expect Friedman to be a coffee-table book.  I expect that it
will inform amateur and professional cryptographers.

I hope that anyone who designs a cryptosystem will read these
documents.  I hope that they will gain an understanding of how
cryptosystems are broken, so that they can design their cryptosystem to
be more resistant to breakage.  I hope that amateurs will play at
breaking ciphers which they encounter (the decryptors for popular PC
"security" programs are an example), and hope that this will let them
break increasingly sophisticated ciphers.

To develop good cryptography, one must understand good cryptanalysis.
NSA could not have made DES resistant to differential cryptanalysis
without understanding differential cryptanalysis in the first place.
(Contrast how quickly FEAL and SNEFRU fell to diffcryp, versus how long
it took to get a theoretical -- not even practical -- advantage over
DES.)

I believe that we, as a society, must wean ourselves from our
dependence on the military cryptography community.  While we should
certainly continue in our efforts to convince them that the best course
would be for them to help *everyone* protect privacy, we may fail at
that.  If they persist in the idea that it's OK for them to see
everyone's communications and it's not OK for citizens to have good
cryptography, and our government-of-the-people is unable to overrule
them (perhaps the way it was impossible to dislodge J. Edgar Hoover, who
knew too many Congressmen's secrets), then we will need to develop good
cryptography on our own.  (If good cryptography is outlawed in the
U.S., this development may have to happen in secret, or in foreign
countries -- like the development of PGP 2.0.)

Whit Diffie has stated that he is not sure whether any society -- even
an open democracy -- can survive the widespread use of good
cryptography.  I am not sure either, but the genie isn't going to
be put back in the bottle.  The anti-social forces can get it anytime
they want it, unless we give up or lose the right to do research,
to think about mathematics, to publish, or to write and run software.
So we had better make sure that pro-social forces all over society
can protect themselves with the same technology -- for privacy,
security, authentication, and accountability.
-- 
John Gilmore                gnu@toad.com  --  gnu@cygnus.com  --  gnu@eff.org
				RESTRICTED
    Notice. - This document contains information affecting the national
    defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Act
    (U.S.C. 50: 31, 32).  The transmission of this document or the
    revelation of its contents in any manner to any unauthorized person
    is prohibited.
