Path: msuinfo!caen!uunet!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!hoptoad!gnu
From: gnu@hoptoad.uucp (John Gilmore)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Avoiding infrastructure that tempts police state fate
Message-ID: <39329@hoptoad.uucp>
Date: 29 Nov 92 08:52:07 GMT
References: <1992Oct28.152443.1589@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu> <1992Oct29.024630.5630@shearson.com>
Organization: Cygnus Support, Palo Alto
Lines: 43

pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (Perry E. Metzger) wrote:
> It has been said (I am told by John Gilmore) that it is imperative in
> our technological age that we consider what infrastructural tools
> would be needed for an effective police state and assure that the
> government never has access to such tools lest a police state arrive.
> High on the wish list of all police states is the capacity to tap all
> communications. 

Here is the passage that you are referring to, from my speech to the
first Computers, Freedom and Privacy conference:

                 We have to realize that people who run the government
  can and do change.  Our society, and our permanent rules, must assume
  that bad people -- criminals even -- will run the government, at least
  part of the time.  ...
  
  The whole conference has spent a lot of time talking about ways to
  control uses of information and to protect peoples' privacy after the
  information was collected.  But that only works if you assume a good
  government.  If we get one seriously bad government, they'll have all
  the information they need to make an efficient police state and make it
  the last government.  It's more than convenient for them -- in fact,
  it's a temptation for people who want to do that, to try to get into
  power and do it.  Because we are giving them the means.

  What if we could build a society where the information was never
  collected?  Where you could pay to rent a video without leaving a
  credit card number or a bank number?  Where you could prove you're
  certified to drive without ever giving your name?  Where you could send
  and receive messages without revealing your physical location, like an
  electronic post office box?

  That's the kind of society I want to build.  I want a guarantee -- with
  physics and mathematics, not with laws -- that we can give ourselves
  things like real privacy of personal communications.   ...
-- 
John Gilmore                gnu@toad.com  --  gnu@cygnus.com  --  gnu@eff.org
				RESTRICTED
    Notice. - This document contains information affecting the national
    defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Act
    (U.S.C. 50: 31, 32).  The transmission of this document or the
    revelation of its contents in any manner to any unauthorized person
    is prohibited.
