Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!jvnc.net!yale.edu!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Registration of Keys
Message-ID: <921126020221.636171@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Date: 26 Nov 92 02:02:00 GMT
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Lines: 43


>i am sure that the common carriers are currently required to encrypt
traffic, a
>\ct, i think the ds-3 level. i know that a few years ago i installed
ds-3 encry
>\cption devices, make by rockwell communications (collins radio) on a
private m
>\cicrowave network. these devices were made to nsa specs and designed
for use b
>\cy common carriers.

Absolutely not true.  While many private users of DS-3 circuits,
specifically to include IBM, do encrypt their circuits, the common
carriers are neither required to, nor do they, encrypt those 
circuits.  You may well have installed them, but they were on the
user side, not the common carrier side.  (Don't you remember the
zero padding problem?  (The carriers, who thought in voice analog,
padded short blocks with zeros.  This was not even noticeable in
voice, but destroyed the integrity of digital data and clobbered
encrypted data.)) (Some value added carriers will provide encryption
by agreement.) 

However, these circuits are part of the problem.  The equipment and
special knowledge required to read a DS-3, even in public codes, 
already defeats the FBI.  This is what they are complaining about.  
They have not even gotten to the issue of secret codes yet.  This
whole thread begins from speculation on Dorothy Denning's part.

A DS-3 carrying carrying mixed voice data, some of which is 
multiplexed by the carrier and some by the user is incredibly
expensive to read.  (I have several clients where the terminating
equipment for their mixed voice and data DS-3s costs millions of 
dollars.)   Where the multiplexers are owned, operated, and on
the premises of the user, even tapping public codes from the
common carrier premises is prohibitively expensive and obtrusive.

It is essential that we really understand where the government is
coming from if we are to deal with them.


William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104; New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
1-0-ATT-0-700-WMURRAY; WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
