Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:11502 alt.privacy:5068 comp.org.eff.talk:11620
Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!dsinc!ub!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!The-Star.honeywell.com!umn.edu!sctc.com!smith
From: smith@sctc.com (Rick Smith)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy,comp.org.eff.talk
Subject: Re: Scenario to Ban Cash Transactions?
Message-ID: <1992Nov25.230358.645@sctc.com>
Date: 25 Nov 92 23:03:58 GMT
References: <1992Nov25.213542.25325@netcom.com>
Organization: SCTC
Lines: 55

I don't believe in the cashless society. I believe we're moving
towards a cash-resistant society, as evidenced by the elimination of
bills with large face amounts. Ho_ever, _nobody_ not even the
Government has the resources to eliminate cash.

By "cash" I mean self authenticating tokens with an unambiguous
value that is very hard to forge.

I agree with Tim's original note that large scale fraud and money
laundering won't be especially slowed down by eliminating cash. I
posted a strawman proposal to RISKS several months back about how
to do it. My approach probably has flaws, but someone else's probably
won't. If they aren't going to eliminate the big time stuff, it's
hard to see how thy'll sell it to the electorate.

There will always be a need for something to handle low end
transactions in a cost effective manner. If it costs 10-25 cents to do
a transaction electronically, we can't use that approach economically
for cheap transactions. Street vendors come to mind immediately, fast
food shortly thereafter. These places run with as low an overhead as
they can manage. That means cash, cash, cash.  You can't afford to put
a real time electronic transaction authenticating terminal in every
hot dog stand in New York City. And those places can't afford to
lose receipts to fraud.

Another problem is that many people just can't understand credit
transactions. This is different than plain illiteracy or an inability
to do arithmetic. I'm talking about people who can't reliably handle
more money than what they have in their pocket. I know several such
people: our housekeeper's daughter and son-in-law come immediately to
mind. They barely hold onto their jobs and they'll end up as "wards of
the State" if they can't have the cash they understand. There are
millions of people like that out there. Heinlein may be right about
doubting their right to be considered "real people" but they're still
out there. Not insignificant to consider when doing a cost/benefit
analysis on eliminating cash.

Now _maybe_ we can build "digital wallets" out of smartcards or
something that such people can use. The cards would get "filled up"
with money like the magnetic fare cards in various subway systems. But
there will still be some pretty nasty hardware expenses associated
with such things. And assuring the integrity of such components is
going to be really expensive if all money transactions must use them.
And the resulting system will be _so_ distributed that it might not
yield the tracability "benefits" that the Government allegedly wants.

Another thing is to remember the significance of computers as
empowering devices. I think the threat of Orwell and 1984 took a long
step backwards when the personal computer was born. More than
handguns, computers in the hands of the people will keep the
population one step ahead of any government steps toward
totalitarianism. IMHO.

Rick.
smith@sctc.com         arden hills, minnesota
