Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!jvnc.net!yale.edu!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Regulation of Cryptography
Message-ID: <921126024835.155506@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Date: 26 Nov 92 02:48:00 GMT
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Lines: 33


>Paul Bell says that "i am sure that the common carriers are currently
>required to encrypt traffic, at , i think the ds-3 level."  This is
>the first I've heard of this, though it makes sense given the USG's
>concern about Soviet interception of U.S. phone calls carried via
>microwaves, some years ago. A quiet adoption of countermeasures isn't
>unreasonable to expect, particularly since it is a technical measure
>that infringes nobody's civil liberties.

(If it had happened, it would infringe the liberties of the NSA.)

The response to this is in Signalling System 7.  It was to take
the signalling information out of the voice channel and put it 
in a separate channel.  In the old system, the destination number
was in the same channel as the voice data.  It was asserted that
the KGB computers watched the microwave channel for phone numbers
of interest and then recorded only calls to those numbers.  By
putting the number in an unassociated channel, it was hoped to 
inundate the KGB in noise.  They would not be able to identify
the traffic in the air, but it could still be tapped on common
carrier premises.

>Does anyone know more about this? What is ds-3?  

DS-3 is digital signaling on a T3 circuit.  It provides a data rate
of 44.736MBPS, the equivalent of 672 voice grade circuits.  
Originally used only by the carriers, it is now offered by
tariff.  When operated by the customer, the customer owns and
operates the termination equipment (channel banks and multiplexers).

William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104; New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
1-0-ATT-0-700-WMURRAY; WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
