Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!digex.com!digex.net!not-for-mail
From: steve-b@access.digex.net (Steve Brinich)
Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp,alt.privacy,comp.security.misc
Subject: Re: My letter about Clipper
Date: 29 Apr 1993 23:48:03 -0400
Organization: Express Access Online Communications, Greenbelt, MD USA
Lines: 36
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <1rq7hj$c6p@access.digex.net>
References: <sfrnvOS00Uh7A_DGlE@andrew.cmu.edu> <strnlghtC69BCp.GqC@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: access.digex.net
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:17469 sci.crypt:16101 alt.security.pgp:2788 alt.privacy:6723 comp.security.misc:3597

 > It beggars credibility to suggest that the NSA would deliberately expose the
 >President to be caught lying on such a sensitive issue.

  Presidents have lied about sensitive issues, and risked being caught at it,
often enough in the past.  It hardly "beggars credibility" to suspect that this
is occurring for the umpteenth time on this occasion.

 > It further beggars credibility to suggest that the elaborate key escrow
 >scheme, with its costs and inconveniences, as well as its political
 >disadvantages among some, is an elaborate sham.

  The government is rarely bothered by costs and inconveniences -- after all,
the costs are paid and the inconveniences borne by the great unwashed public,
not government bureaucrats.  This particular proposal is, a convenience for
the government -- it is spared the trouble of filing subpeonae, etc in broad
daylight or doing the work of cryptography when it wants someone's encryption
key.

 > Finally, it really beggars credibility that the NSA would risk their
 >reputation and that of the President on there being a back door that
 >a blue-ribbon audit committee couldn't find.

  Really, now, a "blue-ribbon audit committee" selected by the people in
charge of the project wouldn't find a back door if it were the size of the
Arc de Triomphe.

 > Occam's razor suggests that the government could get the same result at
 >lesser risk by releasing Clipper, saying it has no back door, and saying
 >"take it or leave it" without any key escrow, if it indeed does have a back
 >door.

 Occam's Razor doesn't shave all chins.  In particular, it doesn't readily
predict the actions of people who are trying to pull off a scam -- the art
of deception involves the deliberate introduction of complexity for its own
sake.

