Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!cs.utexas.edu!utnut!torn!nott!uotcsi2!geovision!software.mitel.com!grayt
From: grayt@Software.Mitel.COM (Tom Gray)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper
Subject: The Network will Prevail
Message-ID: <14518@grayt>
Date: 22 Apr 93 14:21:34 GMT
Organization: Mitel. Kanata (Ontario). Canada.
Lines: 61
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:16108 alt.privacy.clipper:270


In article <1993Apr19.134346.2620@ulysses.att.com> smb@research.att.com (Steven Bellovin) writes:
>Here are some corrections and additions to Hellman's note, courtesy of
>Dorothy Denning.  Again, this is reposted with permission.
>
>	enforcement agency will use SK to decrypt all information 
>	flowing on the suspected link [Aside: It is my guess that 
>	they may do this constantly on all links, with or without a 
>	court order, since it is almost impossible to tell which links 
>	over which a message will flow.] 
>
>My understanding is that there will be only one decode box and that it
>will be operated by the FBI.  The service provider will isolate the
>communications stream and pass it to the FBI where it will pass through
>the decode box, which will have been keyed with K.

The important parts of this proposal is not the encryption technology which
others are much more qualified than me to discuss but the obsolete conception
of the network which it reveals:

a) how is the "service provider" going to "isolate" the "communications
   stream"

Who is the service provider?
   a) the telephone company?
   b) the bypass network
   c) the service consolidator who multiplexes (with propietary schemes)
      many users
   d) the private network (virutal or not) provider
   e) the network service provider who provides specialized services

Which one of these entities is going to be able to pick out a single user
from the shared multiplexed systems which now make up the network?

What is a communications stream?
   a) is this u-law voice
   b) is it compressed voice
   c) is it proprietary compressed multimedia
   d) is it a multiple string (multiple paths each optimized for a specific
       service) multiservice connection to multiple service providers

How do you isolate:
   a) a shared conference service
         - one user may set up access to a service; invite others into the
           connection and then drop out

The disturbing thing behind this proposal is its ignorance of the current
and future technology of the network. This may be a studued ignorance
like the FBI digital network proposal. This may be an attempt to hold
the network to the technology possible in 1980. This proposal will inevitably
fail due to the reasons that I have noted above. There will be no
"service provider", there will be thousands of service providers.
There will be no "communications stream", there will be multiple paths
with negotiated services whose protocols will be known only to the
participnats. There will be no "isolation"; there will be the collaboration
of many users mediated by the network.

I could go on but this proposal is unworkable in today's network. It will be
futile in the network of 1995.
-- 
i.sinature
