Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!olivea!sgigate!sgi!wdl1!phobos!koontzd
From: koontzd@phobos.lrcs.loral.com (David Koontz )
Subject: Secure Voice Systems
Message-ID: <1993Apr30.162020.23076@wdl.loral.com>
Originator: koontzd@phobos
Sender: news@wdl.loral.com
Organization: Loral Rolm Computer Systems
Date: Fri, 30 Apr 1993 16:20:20 GMT
Lines: 43


Does anyone know if the space shuttle still uses Receive Only secure voice
on DOD  missions?  The way I understand it, a START or SALT treaty specified 
that neither country would encrypt telemetry from military space launches.  
I seem to recall that the old Soviet Union had been accused of violating this
provision in the past, presumably giving cause for reciprocating.

The way I understand it on a DOD mission the crew of the space shuttle would
use code books for transmitting information on an unencrypted link.

I first noticed the ability to use secure voice equipment from shuttle 
control panel photographs.  The secure voice equipment is small, half duplex
and fits in a instrument panel space suited for a clock or other small
instrument.  I recall seeing a picture of these little modules, when
someone was pushing for an upgrade AUTOSEVOCOM to AUTOSEVOCOMII .  Two modules
were mounted in a larger panel/box which presumably contained a MODEM, and
a preamp/phone interface.  I believe that the manufacturer of the TSEC
equipment was HARRIS.  Congress didn't want to spend the money, and as
a result the STU-III was later adopted.  The idea was that you could remove
the two half duplex modules and store them in a safe when the equipment
was unattended.  The voice encoding was CVSD as I recall, and the baud
rate was going to be 16KB/sec.  While I haven't heard an STU-III, I can
recall having played with one of the 4800 baud precurser compressors,
and I would guess the voice quality is better that 16KB CVSD.

I think this was from a photo in Aerospace and Aviation weekly, or whatever 
the title is.  I seriously considered getting a subscription at the time 
(was $58), in an issue during the same time frame there was a full page
advertisement for the CCEP chip, which looked like a blocky or encapsulated
PGA (presumably the anti-tamper part of the package).  This was/is the
industrial strength encryption chip pushed by the NSA.  Upon reflection
the AUTOSEVOCOMII article could have been in Electronics Weekly.

On a similar note, I got a copy of the recently declassified pilots manual
for the SR-71.  It uses a digital radio with a transmission power selector
being its main claim to security.  One wonders if the occurance of a 
transmission would be rated as important as the content.  That isn't
to say that a secure voice setup wouldn't be part of the mission specific
equipment.  Two sections were missing from the manual, presumed to have
been deleted when it was declassified - National Technical Means and
the navigation system, which seems to have been inherited from a ballistic
missile.

