Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!cliftonr
From: cliftonr@netcom.com (Pope Clifton)
Subject: Re: Clipper: Two additional possible problems
Message-ID: <cliftonrC6BDyB.LDF@netcom.com>
Organization: Inst. for Epistemological Pathology
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL9]
References: <cliftonrC69tvt.4AL@netcom.com>
Date: Fri, 30 Apr 1993 20:51:46 GMT
Lines: 77
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:16145 alt.privacy.clipper:278

Pope Clifton (cliftonr@netcom.com) wrote:
^^ Clifton Royston
(sigh) I was intending to switch NAME to show my "serious" name. 
Fortunately the readers of this group have done me the courtesy of taking me
seriously, regardless.

: As I understand it, currently there is no "end-to-end" secret or
: public-key/private-key type scheme involved in the Clipper proposal.  If I
: want to talk to someone, I don't need to have previously exchanged keys with
: him, I just call him up, and the phones establish a session key for us
: using a zero-knowledge algorithm or something of the kind.  (If I've
: misunderstood this part, it probably invalidates the rest of this notion.)

: This lends itself to spoofing. 

It was pointed out to me that this really doesn't have anything to do with
the Clipper chip, just its initial usage as described for the AT&T phone. 
One could use the Clipper chip to build a "secure" phone which required the
two parties to manually enter the (same) session keys on each side, which
would introduce key management problems but eliminate spoofing.  (It still
leaves all of the other concerns.)

: I go buy a pair of Clipper phones to go on a pair of phone lines in a back
: room somewhere, and have the digital switch reprogrammed
: ...
: While his
: caller's phone is synching with my phone, my phone is synching with his
: phone. ...
: Anyone see any problem with this scheme, other than to assume that all
: public officials and phone company employees are totally incorruptible?

It was pointed out that the AT&T phone shows the session key on an LCD
display, so the two parties could read it out to each other, discover that
it didn't match, and learn that they are being spoofed.  (IF they're aware
of the possibility and that they need to do so.)  I still think this is much
inferior to the security of a public-key/private-key scheme.

: The second possibility is a little more paranoid and has to do with another
: weakness in the key generation process. 
...
: How do you know that each of the two key parts is getting the equivalent of
: 80 bits of entropy? 
...
: It would appear that you could
: design a method of splitting the 80-bit key into two 80-bit escrow keys,
: such that one of the keys contained sufficient information to narrow the key
: field to a practical range, and such that this fact was not readily
: detectable by examining the resulting output.  In this case, one of the
: escrow agencies, knowing the algorithm, would be able to eavesdrop with
: impunity.

I got one mail response saying that each escrow agent was putting in one
80-bit key for each chip, to be XOR'd together, and that the escrow agents
were responsible for seeing that the keys were independent.  This would be
OK.

However, that doesn't match the key generation process hypothesized earlier,
where each escrow agent puts in a random _SEED_, and the pair of seeds is
used in generating keys and escrow keys for a batch of several hundred
chips.  If the key generation and insertion process is open to really
detailed scrutiny, down to the source code level, then it can be verified. 
However, if the key insertion process has details which remain secret, there
is no way to be sure the escrow process itself is honest.  So there could be
a hidden back door in the escrow process, even if the notion of escrow were
acceptable, and even if there were no back doors in the encryption algorithm
itself.

I will recheck the description of the key generation process, and the latest
stuff on FTP at csrc.ncsl.nist.gov:/pub/nistnews.  If I am wrong about this
part, I will post a retraction to avoid people wasting time with
refutations.
  -- Clifton

--
cliftonr@netcom.com     Home: +1 808 521 9073  Work: +1 808 625 3234
Clifton Royston, Pope of the Church of the Subgenius in Paradise
"Well now I don't know about that.  I'm a skeptic." -- John_-_Winston
