Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!usenet.ufl.edu!maple.circa.ufl.edu!LIONESS
From: lioness@maple.circa.ufl.edu
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: More one time pad stuff
Date: 30 Apr 1993 22:54:11 GMT
Organization: Center for Instructional and Research Computing Activities
Lines: 41
Message-ID: <1rsamjINN6hk@no-names.nerdc.ufl.edu>
Reply-To: LIONESS@ufcc.ufl.edu
NNTP-Posting-Host: maple.circa.ufl.edu


Okay, it seems that one time pad is pretty secure.  But is this a concept
of a pad, or do you actually need some huge document/source encryptor
that matches every word?

For example, if I encrypted the Magna Carta using XOR, would it be safe
to assume that if I used some word "hellothereunclesam" against the whole
document in a repeating fashion, is this unbreakable?  Assuming that:

	1.  The would-be cracker doesn't know what algorithm you are
	using ( XOR, add, sub, rot, mul/div, etc. ).
	2.  The would-be cracker doesn't know what the encrypted data is ( a
	binary file, a text file, a word processor file, a GIF file, etc. )

It would seem to me to be practically impossible to crack the above unless
the cracker A.) knew the document was the Magna Carta AND B.) knew that
I was using XOR.

An interesting way of doing things, I think, would be to use some agreed
upon source...say the headline of the New York Times.  Even better, some
machines allow you to download digital data from an audio compact disc
in a CD-ROM drive.  Are CDs consistent enough where I could mail someone
an encrypted message that had part of the header: "12:3:31:15" which
could mean "XOR against track 12, from 3:31, for 15 seconds" and they
could run it through the decrypter using the same CD?

Obviously you still have physical security to protect ( what if the 
interceptor knows that you are using "The Final Cut" as your source ),
but still, the odds are so low that even the NSA's best would be
hardpressed to crack something.  Question:  If you were using the
same track over and over and over again, given:
	
	1.  You are sending mail to someone, containing text/binary, etc.
	2.  You are using the same encryption method with the same key.
	3.  The interceptor doesn't know what is encrypted or how it is
	encrypted.

Is it possible to break in a feasible amount of time "i.e. in less than a
week?"

Brian
