Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!gatekeeper.us.oracle.com!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!cliftonr
From: cliftonr@netcom.com (Pope Clifton)
Subject: Re: More one time pad stuff
Message-ID: <cliftonrC6BMC4.ABF@netcom.com>
Organization: Inst. for Epistemological Pathology
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL9]
References: <1rsamjINN6hk@no-names.nerdc.ufl.edu>
Date: Fri, 30 Apr 1993 23:52:52 GMT
Lines: 75

lioness@maple.circa.ufl.edu wrote:

: Okay, it seems that one time pad is pretty secure.  But is this a concept
: of a pad, or do you actually need some huge document/source encryptor
: that matches every word?

A "one-time pad" is secure because it is only used "one time."  The second
time you use it, you have lost all your security for _BOTH_ messages.

: For example, if I encrypted the Magna Carta using XOR, would it be safe
: to assume that if I used some word "hellothereunclesam" against the whole
: document in a repeating fashion, is this unbreakable?  Assuming that:

I didn't understand whether you meant the Magna Carta was your "key" (=
"pad") or the document you're encrypting.  If you are talking about using
"hellothereunclesam" as your key for the document, it's _NOT_ a one-time pad
because you are using the same XOR key over and over again.  

If you mean using the "Magna Carta" as your key, it's a terrible choice
because: 1) it's ASCII text (meaning all values do not occur with equal
probability); 2) It's a well-known published document, meaning someone could
have it on a list of sample texts to try as keys; 3) it's not long enough to
encrypt much with.

: It would seem to me to be practically impossible to crack the above unless
: the cracker A.) knew the document was the Magna Carta AND B.) knew that
: I was using XOR.

Trivially easy, either way around.  (Check the FAQ bibliography.) I bet I
could do it, and I'm a total amateur at cryptanalysis.  (But please DON'T
post a puzzle and say "OK, then decrypt this"; that's not what this group is
for.)

: An interesting way of doing things, I think, would be to use some agreed
: upon source...say the headline of the New York Times.  Even better, some

Even worse idea, for the reasons listed above, and because it's even
shorter.

: ... Are CDs consistent enough where I could mail someone
: an encrypted message that had part of the header: "12:3:31:15" which
: could mean "XOR against track 12, from 3:31, for 15 seconds" and they
: could run it through the decrypter using the same CD?  
...
: the odds are so low that even the NSA's best would be
: hardpressed to crack something.

I think you are very very wrong here.

: Question:  If you were using the
: same track over and over and over again, given:
: 	1.  You are sending mail to someone, containing text/binary, etc.
: 	2.  You are using the same encryption method with the same key.
: 	3.  The interceptor doesn't know what is encrypted or how it is
: 	encrypted.
: Is it possible to break in a feasible amount of time "i.e. in less than a
: week?"

I would guess about 5 minutes with a typical desktop PC.  One of the first
things a cryptanalyst would probably do is run a program to XOR the
encrypted text samples against each other at different offsets, and look for
patterns that were characteristic of XOR'd clear text, etc. etc.  Once he
finds it, he can start trying to peel back both texts against each other. 
Disclaimer: This is a gross over-simplification to get the concept across.

I suggest you carefully read the 10 section FAQ carefully, and then pick up
a couple of the books in the bibliography from the library.  That will help
tell you what to AVOID doing.  I'm afraid most of your suggestions here fell
into the latter category.  Sorry, no flame intended.
  -- Clifton

--
cliftonr@netcom.com     Home: +1 808 521 9073  Work: +1 808 625 3234
Clifton Royston, Pope of the Church of the Subgenius in Paradise
"Well now I don't know about that.  I'm a skeptic." -- John_-_Winston
