Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!tis.com!mjr
From: mjr@tis.com (Marcus J Ranum)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: More one time pad stuff
Date: 1 May 1993 00:45:52 GMT
Organization: Trusted Information Systems, Inc.
Lines: 41
Message-ID: <1rsh80$d76@sol.TIS.COM>
References: <1rsamjINN6hk@no-names.nerdc.ufl.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: sol.tis.com

>Okay, it seems that one time pad is pretty secure.  But is this a concept
>of a pad, or do you actually need some huge document/source encryptor
>that matches every word?

	A one-time pad is absolutely secure. One thing I guess I wasn't
clear enough on was that the size of the pad must be greater than or
equal to the size of the plaintext.

>For example, if I encrypted the Magna Carta using XOR, would it be safe
>to assume that if I used some word "hellothereunclesam" against the whole
>document in a repeating fashion, is this unbreakable?  Assuming that:

	No, that's trivially breakable. In order to have a true one-time
pad, you would have to XOR the Magna Carta with a block of random data
the same size as the Magna Carta. At that point, there's no repetition,
and there's no pattern a cryptanalyst can attack.

	Also, of course, "hellothereunclesam" isn't random. If I knew
you'd encrypted using an english document as the pad, I could apply
some guesses using the frequencies of characters in english.

>An interesting way of doing things, I think, would be to use some agreed
>upon source...say the headline of the New York Times.

	This is possibly vulnerable to attack based on letter frequencies.
Music has structure also, or you wouldn't listen to it! (Unless you like
early 'Swans' like I do) using a CD as a cheap one-time pad would be a
real bad idea if you used a digital or digitally remastered recording,
since you wouldn't even have all that analog fuzz you get with vinyl.

I repeat:
	For a one-time pad to be secure
	a) the key must be the same size or larger than the plaintext
	b) the key must be *random* - truly and completely random

	If you make your own CDs of random data (I suspect some folks
do this!) then you could do nice one-time pads. 'Floptical' rewriteable
optical floppies are appealing for this purpose. You still have the
key distribution problem, of course.

mjr.
