Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!wupost!uunet!mcsun!fuug!funic!nntp.hut.fi!kampi.hut.fi!alo
From: alo@kampi.hut.fi (Antti Louko)
Subject: Clipper
Message-ID: <1993May3.095918.13995@nntp.hut.fi>
Originator: alo@kampi.hut.fi
Sender: usenet@nntp.hut.fi (Usenet pseudouser id)
Nntp-Posting-Host: kampi.hut.fi
Organization: Helsinki University of Technology
Date: Mon, 3 May 1993 09:59:18 GMT
Lines: 31
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:16229 alt.privacy.clipper:300

I would like to see a convincing method how one could verify that
Clipper does not leak the unit key. No unscientific methods (like
"Trust Them") are acceptable.

I can think several ways how Clipper might leak the unit (or session) key:

1. Because the family key is kept secret, it is impossible to verify
that LEF _really_ contains unit-key-encrypted session key and serial
number. LEF might as well contain the unit key encrypted with some
other secret key. It is be impossible to know about this, because the
FBI-operated tapping devices just reveal session keys. They don't tell
_how_ they got the session keys.

2. We have no information how Clipper chips perform the cryptographic
synchronization. "clip.txt" makes one assume that the synchronization
protocol is also secret. We cannot know whether chips leak unit key
bits at the synchronization time.

3. Someone already mentioned the possibility that Clipper may
implement a covert channel by compressing data stream and putting unit
key bits into the empty positions.

The examination of the algorithm by an expert commitee cannot solve
problems like this. If we have only Clipper chips communicating, leaks
don't show. To see leaks we would need independent implementations of
the whole Clipper protocol. And it is not enough to have them only in
the evaluation stage, they are needed in everyday use. (Un)fortunately
independand implementations would also ruin the key escrow mechanism.

The only useful use I see for the Clipper is to use it only as a data
transport for a real cryptographic communications system.
