Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!mcsun!sun4nl!tuegate.tue.nl!blade.stack.urc.tue.nl!johan
From: johan@blade.stack.urc.tue.nl (Johan Wevers)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,comp.security.misc
Subject: Re: Clipper Chip: Reverse Engineering
Date: 3 May 1993 14:02:32 GMT
Organization: Department of Physics, Eindhoven University of Technology.
Lines: 26
Message-ID: <1s38lo$8oe@tuegate.tue.nl>
References: <C64Mzt.FA5@plato.ds.boeing.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: blade.stack.urc.tue.nl
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:16235 alt.security:10244 comp.security.misc:3647

Mark A Allyn writes:

> The question that I have is why can't someone take one of these chips
> and reverse engineer it? I mean, take the thing to a chip testing/
> analysis facility, one with a decent electron microscope. Just pry
> off the top of the chip and start scanning it with the electron
> microcope and figure out the circuitry.

I think reverse engeneering with this method is impossibe. To start, an
electron microscope can only see the surface. Most modern IC's have a
3-dimensional structure which cannot be determined by scanning the surface.
Further, electron microscopes can only see things which are electrically
conductive. Isolated parts must be covered with conductive atoms (usually
gold). With this method you can see the surface, but you can't determine
the chemical composition of it (to determine, for instance, or it is P or N
doped meterial). This research could be done with focussed ion beams, but
usually only gouvernmental institutes have them. And they also can't look
in 3D. Sputtering layers of won't work here IMO.

For a more practical reverse engeneering I think putting in known plaintext
and comparing it with the crypted output is a better way to determine the
algorithm. Once the algorithm is known, the specific implementation on the
IC's is not important any more, you can develop your own implementation.
-- 
J.C.A. Wevers                 The only nature of reality is physics.
johan@blade.stack.urc.tue.nl  
