Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,comp.security.misc
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!oakhill!mikeh
From: mikeh%oakhill@sps.mot.com (Michael Herman)
Subject: Re: Clipper Chip: Reverse Engineering
Message-ID: <C6Gn7E.3JK@oakhill.sps.mot.com>
Followup-To: sci.crypt,alt.security,comp.security.misc
Sender: news@oakhill.sps.mot.com
Nntp-Posting-Host: bunt-gateway
Organization: Motorola SPS, Austin, Texas
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL9]
References: <1s38lo$8oe@tuegate.tue.nl>
Date: Mon, 3 May 1993 16:59:38 GMT
Lines: 47
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:16246 alt.security:10249 comp.security.misc:3653

Johan Wevers (johan@blade.stack.urc.tue.nl) wrote:
: Mark A Allyn writes:

: > The question that I have is why can't someone take one of these chips
: > and reverse engineer it? I mean, take the thing to a chip testing/
: > analysis facility, one with a decent electron microscope. Just pry
: > off the top of the chip and start scanning it with the electron
: > microcope and figure out the circuitry.

: I think reverse engeneering with this method is impossibe. To start, an
: electron microscope can only see the surface. Most modern IC's have a
: 3-dimensional structure which cannot be determined by scanning the surface.
: Further, electron microscopes can only see things which are electrically
: conductive. Isolated parts must be covered with conductive atoms (usually
: gold). With this method you can see the surface, but you can't determine
: the chemical composition of it (to determine, for instance, or it is P or N
: doped meterial). This research could be done with focussed ion beams, but

nope, there are electon scopes that can see without gold, in fact
they can see a chip that is currently operating and have no 
effect on it.  BIG moola tho

You also dont need a sem to tell you if its p or n, micro probing can tell
you that, along with photon emmisions.

as for the layer thing, you can deprocess each layer as you go,     
destructive, yes, but it works.

: usually only gouvernmental institutes have them. And they also can't look
: in 3D. Sputtering layers of won't work here IMO.

: For a more practical reverse engeneering I think putting in known plaintext
: and comparing it with the crypted output is a better way to determine the
: algorithm. Once the algorithm is known, the specific implementation on the
: IC's is not important any more, you can develop your own implementation.
: -- 
: J.C.A. Wevers                 The only nature of reality is physics.
: johan@blade.stack.urc.tue.nl  

I am not saying this IS possible, but if you got the money, the time, 
and the brains (thats the hardest one to get :)
you could at least learn something about the chip and when you 
are shooting blind, every little bit helps

JC
motorola does NOT share my views.

