Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp,alt.privacy,comp.security.misc,alt.privacy.clipper
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!linac!att!att-out!cbnewsh!wcs
From: wcs@cbnewsh.cb.att.com (Bill Stewart 908-949-0705 erebus.att.com!wcs)
Subject: Re: My letter about Clipper
Organization: Students for an Utterly Free Society
Date: Tue, 4 May 1993 04:48:02 GMT
Message-ID: <C6HK04.1MH@cbnewsh.cb.att.com>
In-Reply-To: strnlght@netcom.com's message of Thu, 29 Apr 1993 18:00:24 GMT
References: <sfrnvOS00Uh7A_DGlE@andrew.cmu.edu> <strnlghtC69BCp.GqC@netcom.com>
Sender: wcs@anchor.att.com
Lines: 77
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:17602 sci.crypt:16267 alt.security.pgp:2849 alt.privacy:6777 comp.security.misc:3659 alt.privacy.clipper:312

In article <strnlghtC69BCp.GqC@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:
   >> It discredits the writer with third parties to claim Clipper has a back
   >> door. It does not.  [...]
   Those who know say Clipper has no back door. The President says (one assumes
   on the basis of being told) that Clipper has no back door.

Of *course* there's a back door - just because it's got big neon signs saying 
	"Back Door - Cops Only!"
doesn't mean it isn't a back door.  
The fact that there's one key in a glass box on the wall next to it marked
	"In Case Of Suspicion Break Glass"
doesn't mean that nobody made another copy of the key when they made the lock,
or that you can't take the glass cover off the box without breaking it.
And I've seen NO promises of that in any of the government press releases,
only elaborate descriptions of how they plan to put the key in the box
and break the glass.

   Those who claim it does are not in a position to know.  The best they can do
   is to assert that the government is lying and impute motives so to do.

The stereotypical statement of those who oppose public use of crypto is
	"If you've got nothing to hide, why are you hiding it?"
Well, if the government doesn't trust the people with strong cryptography,
and doesn't trust the people with complete information on the system
they want us to use, and given its well-established track record of
illegally violating the privacy of people it doesn't like,
I see no reason to trust it.  Sorry.

   It beggars credibility to suggest that the NSA would deliberately expose the
   President to be caught lying on such a sensitive issue.  

President Bill Clinton, who's moving his press office to the Waffle House?
Get Real!  Sure, I'd believe Clinton had "plausible deniability" before 
I'd believe George Bush had it, and I suspect Ronald Reagan may *not* 
have known what his staff was doing, but a man who has a record of
changing his position multiple times on important issues and
delegating important policy decisions to his staff (e.g. Janet Reno)
is *not* the kind of guy who inspires this kind of automatic trust.
No, the NSA is probably NOT doing it deliberately to trash the Prez;
that would beggar credibility.  But there's a credibility gap in Washington
big enough to drop the federal budget deficit in; credibility's been a
beggar in Washington for years.

   It further beggars credibility to suggest that the elaborate key escrow scheme,
   with its costs and inconveniences, as well as its political disadvantages among
   some, is an elaborate sham. 

Agreed.  There *are* real uses for it - if the people will accept it,
it's another foot in the door, it would be more secure than DES if it
didn't have the risk of key compromise, and it *would* be nice to keep
the French and perhaps Israelis from doing industrial or political espionage.
It also builds up production volume for the chip, which appears to be easily
be programmed to NOT use the back door, supporting cheap military versions.
And it makes it much easier to keep the cellular phone companies from
putting real encryption, even DES, in their systems, and to keep
consumer electronics companies from flooding the market with hard-to-break stuff.
It also means that politicians and government contractors will be able
to talk on their cellular phones with nobody eavesdropping except the government.

   Finally, it really beggars credibility that the NSA would
   risk their reputation and that of the President on there being a back door
   that a  blue-ribbon audit committee couldn't find.

Feh.  It beggars credibility to suggest that the NSA would invite a
blue-ribbon commission to audit a system that *did* have an obvious problem.
With DES, it took a few years before some of the interesting discoveries
came out, such as weak keys, efficient encryption methods, differential 
cryptanalysis, and conclusions about whether it's a group.
Even finding the weaknesses in FEAL took a while, with better documentation.

There are a few technical opportunities for a back door, such as the selection
of N1, N2, and N3, but it's mainly the procedural parts that have promise.
-- 

				Pray for peace;      Bill
#Bill Stewart 908-949-0705 wcs@anchor.ho.att.com AT&T Bell Labs 4M312 Holmdel NJ
# Any technology distinguishable from magic is not sufficiently advanced ...
