Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!sdd.hp.com!decwrl!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!sarfatti
From: sarfatti@netcom.com (Jack Sarfatti)
Subject: Quantum Cryptography on the Horizon?
Message-ID: <sarfattiC6K93C.Au0@netcom.com>
Keywords: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen, untappable messages
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
Date: Wed, 5 May 1993 15:45:11 GMT
Lines: 229

Teleportation by Quantum Menage a Trois?

The seemingly science fiction Star Trek quality to the following has 
practical applications to cryptography and secure untappable command-
control-communications in military technology (e.g., submarine, combat 
battle-field and deep space), computer-assisted financial transactions, 
personal privacy etc. It is no accident that Charles H. Bennett, one of the 
key physicists, works for IBM Watson Research Center. Can this new 
"teleportation" may allow us to break the speed of light barrier in the 
transfer of information between different space regions of a computer?  
Ignoring these physics developments may be catastropically disastrous for 
world-wide political and financial stability ten years from now.  Certain 
large corporations now in the fore-front of high technology can find 
themselves out in the cold.

nature, 362, 15 April, 1993, p.586, Tony Sudbery
"Quantum mechanics: Instant teleportation"
Bennett's (et-al includes Peres, Wooters - an all-star cast)) paper is Phys. 
Rev. Lett 70, 1895 (1993). If some one can post excerpts that would be good 
for those of us on internet not near a physics library.
Sudbery writes:

"The idea behind teleportation is that a physical object is equivalent to 
the information needed to construct it; the object can therefore be 
transported by transmitting the information along any conventional channel 
of telecommunication, the receiver using the information to reconstruct the 
object."

Classical examples include the fax machine.

"... if one steadily reduces the scale at which it faithfully reproduces 
detail, one will eventually run afoul of the uncertainty principle of 
quantum mechanics ...  with the consequence that the object in its orginal 
state is bound to be destroyed by the process of scanning for transmission. 
This was proved by Wooters and Zurek  (Nature, 299, 802, 1982) ... under the 
slogan  'A single quantum cannot be cloned.'"

The Wooter's - Zurek paper was in response to Nick Herbert's 1982 "FLASH" 
paper in Foundations of Physics which was a gedankenexperiment that gave 
faster-than-light quantum connection communication provided that non-
orthogonal states can be distinguished. In Herbert's case, it was the 
distinction between circularly-unpolarized-light ("CUP") and plane-
unpolarized-light ("PUP") which have the same density matrix. Herbert 
assumed a nonlocal hidden variable beyond the density matrix. The message 
bit was encoded by the choice to insert or not insert a quarter wave plate 
intercepting the "transmitter" photon part of the pair. The message bit was 
decoded by cloning the twin receiver photon with a laser amplifier. It was 
this last step that they claimed could not be done because it violated the 
superposition principle - which is assumed by Bennett et-al.

However, Aharonov and Vaidman in a preprint (TAUP 2019-93) "Measurement of 
the Schrodinger wave of a single particle" introduce a "protected 
measurement" that casts doubt on the "No-clone" result. Aharonov and Vaidman 
write:

"... it is possible to measure the Schrodinger wave of a single quantum 
system. This provides a strong argument for associating physical reality 
with the quantum state of a single system, and challenges the usual 
assumption that the quantum state has physical meaning only for an ensemble 
of identical systems."

Aharonov and Vaidman explicitly discuss how unitary time evolution between 
disruptive measurements that collapse the state into an incoherent mixture 
orthogonal eigenstates of the observable prevent the experimental 
distinguishability of non-orthogonal state (e.g. |z+> is not orthogonal to 
|x+> since <z+|x+> = 1/rt2 - for spin 1/2). Thus,

"... but the unitary time evolution of states in quantum mechanics implies 
that it is impossible to distinguish two different non-orthogonal states. 
Different outcomes of a measurement to distinguish these two states 
correspond to orthogonal quantum states of the composite system (measureing 
device plus particle). But, the initial scalar product between the states 
was not zero and remains nonzero under unitary time evolution."

Indeed, Asher Peres (vol 8 of Santa Fe Institute Proceedings) shows how 
distinguishability of non-orthogonal states not only permits quantum 
connection communication faster than the speeding photon, but also permits 
Maxwell's Demon to beat the classical limit of the second law of 
thermodynamics. Aharonov's student, David Albert, as shown us how, in the 
parallel universes interpretation, a Maxwell Demon can beat the Heisenberg 
principle if Wigner's Friend hands the Demon a "photograph" of himself in a 
parallel world. This beating of the Heisenberg limit can only be done by the 
Demon, not by Wigner's Friend, it is not beyond standard quantum mechanics 
but a rigorous consequence of it when Godelian strange loops of "self-
reference" are added - but it may be enough to avoid the "No clone' limit of 
Wooters and Zurek.  There are interesting cognitive resonances of this 
complex of ideas to Oxford's David Deutsch's work on parallel quantum 
computing around globally self-consistent Feynman histories on closed time 
like world lines permitted by the "traversable wormhole" time machine models 
of Kip Thorne, Igor Novikov et-al.

*For background on the Maxwell Demon see the Princeton Series book Maxwell's 
Demon, Entropy, Information, Computing edited by Leff and Rex 1990 ISBN 0-
691-08727.

However, the "protected measurement" provides a loop hole that may resurrect 
Nick Herbert's FLASH. Commenting on the standard unitarity barrier to the 
distinguishability of non-orthogonal states in "collapse" un-protected 
measurements, Aharonov and Vaidman write:

"... it only implies that there is no single universal procedure for 
observing states. It still allows for the possibility of an appropriate 
measuring device for any given state."

The key word here is "universal". It is the demand for a "universal 
procedure" which cause Wooters and Zurek to announce that cloning a photon 
will violate the superposition principle.  Nick Herbert thinks that the 
demand for universality is not necessary. Aharonov and Vaidman appear to 
agree with Herbert on this particular.

It is clear from Sudberry's presentation in nature that Bennett, Peres and 
Wooters et-al's "teleportation" does not anticipate the "protected 
measurements" of Aharonov and Vaidman.  - an interesting conflict in the 
works. On the other hand, it may turn out that Bennett et-al "teleportation" 
is a surprising variation on Aharonov's "protected measurement". Sudberry 
continues:

"The authors divide the complete description of the quantum object into a 
classical part, consisting of information obtained by an experiment which 
can be transmitted or broadcast on any conventional channel, and the quantum 
residue, undetectable and, one would have thought, untransmittable except by 
sending the object itself. But teleportation provides another way of 
transmitting quantum information, using the concept of 'entanglement' of two 
objects. This is the situation .... in which the properties of the two 
objects are correlated in such a way that an observation of one of them 
appears to affect the other - instantaneously.

In the device of Bennett et al. the object to be described (call it X) is 
entangled with another object A by a quantum measurement of a joint property 
of the two particles. Normally this measurement would destroy the full 
quantum information about X. However, if A is already entangled with a third 
object B, the effect of the measurement on X and A is to transfer the state 
of X to B - not faithfully, but after a transformation which depends on the 
result of the measurement. The transformation can then be undone by someone 
who knows the result of the measurement leaving B in the state in which X 
started. It has become the teleported version of X".

In terms of breaking the speed of light information transfer limit in 
computers, David Deutsch's work on parallel world quantum computing suggests 
a kind of "virtual computing" in which the final step of "erasure" above, 
while needed for us to use the result, nevertheless, allow the computer to 
effectively solve problems which are too complex for classical computers. 
This is also related to Roger Penrose's thesis (e.g., The Emperor's New 
Mind) that the human mind is "nonalgorithmic" in the sense that it is beyond 
the limits of classical Turing machines. Penrose's thesis requires that the 
human mind, and all mind, is some sort of macroscopic quantum process that 
interacts with the classical mechanism of nerve impulse generation, protein 
- RNA - DNA couplings etc.

Returning to Sudberry:

"Thus when the device is used by a sender Alice and a receiver Bob, the 
sequence of events is as follows. When it is set up, Alice and Bob are 
provided with an entangled pair of objects, A and B."

Obviously Alice (who, like Bob, could be a nuclear submarine communications 
officer, for example) and Bob are provided with about 10^24 pairs A and B on 
two tiny A and B cards containing lattices of electrons trapped in long-
lived quantum dots.  When Alice wants to send an object X to Bob, she 
performs a joint measurement on X and A."

Alice feeds her message into a computer that magnetically scans a sector of 
quantum dot array in "transmitter" card A.

"Bob's object immediately becomes one of the transformed versions of X."

Can a "protected measurement" on the receiver card B detect this change 
before the classical signal from Alice gets there? If so, we have broken the 
speed of light barrier for computers including, perhaps, the quantum 
biocomputer generating our consciousness?

"Alice then informs Bob of the result of her measurement using a classical 
channel of communication; this tells Bob which of the transformed versions 
he has, so that he knows which method to use to undo the transformation and 
obtain his copy of X.

This method of sending the information about X has the advantage over simply 
sending X itself that Alice does not need to know where Bob is. Once the 
device has been set up by entangling A and B, Bob can wander around with B 
without breaking the channel for the lone copy of the quantum information."

That is, the quantum information, unlike the classical information, is 
irreproducible, unique, and cannot be tapped!

"The classical information, which is reproducible, can be broadcast so that 
Bob can receive it wherever he is.

... is there any genuine instantaneous influence or transmission in the 
Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen experiment? Does the quantum state vector (or 
wavefunction) describe objective physical properties of an object?"

Aharonov and Vaidman think so.

"The two questions are closely related."

Indeed, if, for example Ballentine is right and Aharonov is wrong, that is, 
if the wave function does not describe individual quantum systems and is no 
measurable, but only describes ensembles of quantum systems, then the 
classical signal transmission is really needed and the speed of light 
barrier cannot be broken. On the other hand, if Aharonov is right, then it 
is a new ball game and the Fat Lady has not sung her last note yet.  
However, Sudbery writes of Aharonov's work

"... proposed methods to observe the full details of the state vector, 
converting it all to classical information and leaving no quantum residue; 
but these observations take a long time and work only when one knows in 
advance what one is going to observe."

On the other hand, this limitation on Aharonov and Vaidman's proposal may be 
only temporary, an artifact of their unrealistic von Neumann interaction 
Hamiltonian

                        H = g(t)pA

for measuring quantum observable A where p is the "pointer" canonical 
momentum.Nobel Laureate Willis E Lamb,Jr (vol 480 Annals NY Academy of 
Sciences pp 407-416 offers us new options in this regard. Commenting on the 
above H Lamb writes:

" ... is very unphysical in all respects... I regard it as unacceptable. I 
am working on some models with more physically reasonable forms of 
interaction..." p.410.







