Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!darwin.sura.net!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!concert!decwrl!toad.com!gnu
From: gnu@toad.com (John Gilmore)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Digital Privacy Group writes: Dear Mr. President
Message-ID: <34430@toad.com>
Date: 7 May 93 00:43:19 GMT
Organization: Cygnus Support, Palo Alto
Lines: 126

This letter to the President dated 5/6/93 on Cryptography and Clipper
Chip is from the digital privacy and security working group,
coordinated by the Electronic Frontier Foundation.  PLEASE CIRCULATE
BROADLY.  For further information, contact Jerry Berman,
jberman@eff.org, +1 202 544 9237.

The President
The White House
Washington, D.C.  20500

Dear Mr. President:

        On April 16 you initiated a broad industry/government review of
privacy and cryptography policies. We applaud your efforts to develop a
greater understanding of these complex issues.  With the end of the Cold
War and the rapid evolution of technology in the computer and
communications industries, a comprehensive review of our communications
security policies such as you have directed is sorely needed.  As the world
becomes linked by a myriad of interconnected digital networks, and computer
and communications technologies converge, both government and the private
sector need to evaluate information security and privacy issues. Of course,
any overall policy must recognize the authorized law enforcement and
national security needs, and must evaluate the impact on American
competitiveness.

        The Digital Privacy and Security Working Group -- a coalition of
communications and computer companies and associations, and consumer and
privacy advocates -- was formed almost a decade ago when Congress undertook
a review of technology and security policy.  That review led to the
Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986.  Subsequently, many members
of the Working Group served on the Privacy and Technology Task Force that
Senator Leahy charged with examining these and similar issues in 1991.   

        While we recognize the importance of authorized national security
and law enforcement needs, we believe that there are fundamental privacy
and other constitutional rights that must be taken into account when any
domestic surveillance scheme is proposed.  Moreover, it is unclear how your
proposal and the overall review of cryptography policy will impact on U.S.
export controls.  Over the past two years, the Digital Privacy and Security
Working Group has held numerous meetings at which both public and private
sector representatives have exchanged technical and legal information with
the law enforcement community on just such issues.  

        In the White House press release of April 16, the Press Secretary
stated that you have "directed early and frequent consultations with
affected industries...and groups that advocate the privacy rights of
individuals..."  Our group of over 50 members -- from computer software and
hardware firms, to telecommunications companies and energy companies, to
the American Civil Liberties Union and the Electronic Frontier Foundation
-- requests the opportunity to participate in developing policy on the
broad range of security and privacy issues being considered, including
appropriate encryption techniques.  We believe that our membership has the
breadth and depth of expertise and experience that would allow us to
provide an excellent forum for the development of new policies in these
areas.
        During the past few weeks, the Working Group has met several times
to identify issues that need to be addressed.  Several aspects of the
Administration's encryption proposal warrant further discussion, including,
but not limited to: 

        o       whether a key escrow system will produce the desired law
enforcement results; 
        o       the level of strength and integrity of the algorithm and
the security of the key escrow system; 
        o       the advisability of a government-developed and classified
algorithm; 
        o       its practicality and commercial acceptability; 
        o       the effect of the proposal on American competitiveness and
the balance of trade;
        o       possible implications for the development of digital
communications; and, 
        o       the effect on the right to privacy and other constitutional
rights.

A detailed list of our questions relating to this subject is being prepared
to facilitate this dialogue.

        We are making our views known to officials within your
Administration and Members of Congress as the review begins.  We would
welcome the opportunity to participate in the review process and look
forward to working with you and your Administration on this important issue
in the coming months.  Representatives of the Digital Privacy and Security
Working Group are anxious to meet with your staff at their earliest
convenience to establish a consultation process.         

                                        Sincerely,

abcd, The Microcomputer Industry Association                   
Hewlett-Packard Company
Advanced Network & Services, Inc.                               
IBM
American Civil Liberties Union                                  
Information Technology Association of America
Apple Computer, Inc.                                            
Information Industry Association
AT&T                                                                          
Iris Associates
Business Software Alliance                                             
Lotus Development Corporation
Cavanagh Associates, Inc.                                              
McCaw Cellular Communications
Cellular Telephone Industry Association                                 
MCI
Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility                       
Microsoft Corporation
Computer & Business Equipment Manufacturers Association      
RSA Data Security, Inc.
Computer & Communications Industry Association                        
Software Publishers Association  
Crest Industries, Inc.                                          
Sun Microsystems, Inc.
Digital Equipment Corporation                                   
Toolmaker, Inc.
EDUCOM                                                         
Trusted Information Systems
Electronic Mail Association                                            
United States Telephone Association

                        Electronic Frontier Foundation/Coordinator
                                Contact:  Jerry Berman 202/544-9237
-- 
John Gilmore                gnu@toad.com  --  gnu@cygnus.com  --  gnu@eff.org
 "The Soviets believe that nothing -- like constitutional protection of
  citizens' right to privacy -- must interfere with the security of the
  state.  ...We clearly do not want to change our societal standards to
  theirs..."  -- Adm. Stansfield Turner, ex-dir. CIA, _Secrecy and Democracy_
