Newsgroups: alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!darwin.sura.net!haven.umd.edu!uunet!mnemosyne.cs.du.edu!nyx!rclark
From: rclark@nyx.cs.du.edu (Robert W. F. Clark)
Subject: Conversation Overheard from the Near Future
Message-ID: <1993May8.003146.401@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu>
Followup-To: alt.privacy.clipper
Summary: WARNING:  NO SCIENTIFIC CONTENT:  FOLLOW-UPS to alt.privacy.clipper
Keywords: Propaganda, Warning: No Science Follows, Sensationalistic
Sender: usenet@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu (netnews admin account)
Organization: Cold Media
Date: Sat, 8 May 93 00:31:46 GMT
Lines: 82
Xref: msuinfo alt.privacy.clipper:376 sci.crypt:16385

[Posh office.  Well-dressed and beloved Representative X of
 a major state scowls as his telephone rings.  He picks up
 the telephone with a shrug of annoyance, and as the camera
 (there is, of course, a camera) pans down, we see the 
 Mykotronx corporate logo embossed on the sleek Clipper phone,
 executive model.  We hear a strange 60-cycle hum in the background,
 and the Representative frowns as he begins speaking to an eerie
 voice with the metallic tang of a vocoder.]

"Hello?"

"Hello, Mr. Representative.  We really wish to have some clarification
concerning your position on the new Law Enforcement Bill, you know,
the one with the clause about repealing the First Amendment in
special circumstances."

"I'll have nothing to do with it.  And who the hell are you?  How'd
you get my private number?"

"We have our ways."

"Well, I'm not going to have anything do do with it."

"That's too bad, Mr. Representative.  I'm afraid we have no alternative
but to release this little tape to the news media.  The New York Times
would be interested, and Outweek would love it.  I doubt your wife
would care for it terribly.  Or your constituency."

[Arrangement for rendez-vous deleted]

"How did you get that?  I have a Clipper phone!  You need a warrant
to decode one of those!"

"Actually, Mr. Representative, the law is a little less stringent than
that.  Certainly we wouldn't be able to use that as evidence in a court
of law.  But this conversation reveals no crime.  Regardless, by the
time it made its way to a court case, you'd be ruined.  Terribly
sorry, but you leave us with no choice."

"It doesn't prove anything!"

"It doesn't have to, Mr. Representative.  Don't be naive."

"I'll find you!  They're supposed to register all documents, so I'll
know who leaked this, anyway.  I'll make sure you bastards go down with
me!"

"Well, I'm afraid those documents have been, ahem, 'lost.'  It's
simply awful how bad the help we get is lately.  You probably know
from your experience how hard it is to get good help these days.
In either case, you don't know who leaked it.  The press will report
it as a 'hacker.'  How unreliable the press is, alas!"

"What do you want?"

"Oh, just your vote.  On that bill.  It's in the national interest,
you know."

"Well.  Hey, you're recording this, too, aren't you?"

"Of course, Mr. Representative, of course."

"You leave me with no choice.  I'll vote for your damn bill.
But you'd better watch yourself.  I've been taping this myself."

"Of course, Mr. Representative.  Thank you for your cooperation.
You're a patriot and a gentleman."

[Click.  The Representative pours a shot of whiskey with
shaking hands and drinks it in a gulp.  Pouring another,
he ponders how he will alter his coming campaign speech
to explain how he now realizes the nobility, the utter
necessity of passing the new Law Enforcement Bill.  He
sits down to a personal computer, and begins typing a
memo to his speechwriter.  As the camera pans down, once
again we see the Mykotronx logo affixed to a sticker
wrapped around the cable from his keyboard to the PC.
Fade to black.]
--
----
Robert W. Clark
rclark@nyx.cs.du.edu   PGP signature available by mail or finger
