Newsgroups: alt.security,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!uknet!pavo.csi.cam.ac.uk!rja14
From: rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (Ross Anderson)
Subject: Goodbye smartcards
Message-ID: <1993May8.082011.8630@infodev.cam.ac.uk>
Sender: news@infodev.cam.ac.uk (USENET news)
Nntp-Posting-Host: ely.cl.cam.ac.uk
Organization: U of Cambridge Computer Lab, UK
Date: Sat, 8 May 1993 08:20:11 GMT
Lines: 79
Xref: msuinfo alt.security:10306 sci.crypt:16394


While reviewing some articles yesterday, I came across the following, which 
seems significant enough to be worth summarising to the net.

It reports a long interview with VISA CEO Chuck Russell in which he discusses
a number of topics including fraud and VISA's strategy for controlling this.
Given VISA's market power, it seems quite likely that this will become banking
orthodoxy wordlwide over the next year or two.

The article is entitled `Keeping faith with Electron' and appears in the 
specialist newsletter `Cards International' for 4th March. This is aimed at
bank managers rather than outsiders.


SUMMARY

VISA's fraud strategy is:

(1) move merchants worldwide to online terminals, thus enabling the abolition
    of floor limits and the introduction of PINs at the point of sale;

(2) adopt CVVs worldwide (these are 3-digit crypto checksums on the mag strip
    whose function is to prevent card counterfeiting by people who have had
    access only to the account number and not the actual card);

(3) announce (between October and December 1993) a new mag strip technology out
    of a current shortlist of two or three. The implication is that this will be
    some kind of watermark strip.

In other words, smartcards have lost out.

Russell's justification is that fraud worlwide is only $700m, and a changeover 
to smartcards would cost ten times that. Furthermore, only about a fifth of 
the losses are due to counterfeiting; the rest are stolen cards and postal
intercepts, which he believes will be stopped by the use of PINs whichever
underlying card technology is adopted. Finally, experience in the Asia Pacific 
region has shown that CVVs cut magnetic card counterfeiting by `2/3 to 3/4'.

On these figures. it seems that adopting smartcards and stopping all the 
remaining counterfeiting would only save about $50m a year, and this obviously 
won't justify a $7bn investment. Russell himself says that the fraud level 
`doesn't justity a sledgehammer solution'.


IMPLICATIONS

This will be very bad news for a lot of crypto companies who had hoped to sell
electronic wallets, digital cash and other such schemes to a worldwide market.
If VISA get their way, then these technologies will be limited to niche markets, 
such as developing countries with pooor telecommunications and corporate payment 
systems such as EDI. This in turn will make it harder for people with bright 
ideas in crypto and security to get venture capital.


ACTION?

The figures can certainly be challenged. Scotland Yard, for example, will say
that card fraud is about $600m in the UK alone, but as most of the cost is
borne by users, the banks only report about $250m. Of that, the share carried
by VISA is smaller still, as the banks here tend to switch local transactions
directly rather than pay VISA's interchange fees. If this pattern is repeated
in other countries, then Russell's figure of $700m could be out by at least 
one order of magnitude.

He's also out technically, as the current VISA security technology is 
vulnerable in a whole lot of ways, many of which are not addressed by his
initiative. However, the attacks which these loopholes make possible tend to
be billed to the customer or to the bank, rather than to VISA.

In short, it seems to me that Russell is being rather selfish. His customers 
(20,000 banks worlwide) will keep on being hit by forgery and fraud, and their
customers (that's us folks) will end up paying for it through higher bank 
charges and more expensive goods in the shops.

It is hard to see how to put pressure on him though, as VISA doesn't deal 
directly with the public.


Ross
