Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp,alt.privacy
From: oml@eloka.demon.co.uk (Owen Lewis)
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!utnut!torn!nott!bnrgate!bnr.co.uk!demon!eloka.demon.co.uk!oml
Subject: Re: More Clipper stuff 
Distribution: world
References: <1993May5.211650.29378@ulysses.att.com>
Organization: Eloka Consultancy & Project Management
Reply-To: oml@eloka.demon.co.uk
X-Newsreader: Simple NEWS 1.90 (ka9q DIS 1.21)
Lines: 59
Date: Sat, 8 May 1993 11:39:28 +0000
Message-ID: <736861168snz@eloka.demon.co.uk>
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:17679 sci.crypt:16402 alt.security.pgp:2925 alt.privacy:6821

In article <1993May5.211650.29378@ulysses.att.com> smb@research.att.com writes:

>The entire doctrine regarding wiretaps and the like has to do with
>``expectation of privacy''.  If an activity or a conversation takes
>place under circumstances that suggest that the parties involved desire
>privacy, and have some reasonable expectation that it can be achieved
>because of actions they have taken, then a warrant is required to
>listen in.  Thus, the mere act of using an encryptor would, I think, be
>taken as indicative of both points.  You are trying to achieve privacy,
>and -- given the noises about escrow agencies and the like -- you have
>reason to believe that your privacy will be respected unless a warrant
>is issued.

One difficulty in discussing issues such as this in an international forum is
that law varies so widely from nation to nation. In the U.K., we introduced the 
Interception of Communications Act 1985. A prime purpose in enacting this 
legislation was to regulate the circumstances in which the police may intercept 
the content of postal mail and electronic communication. In short, it requires 
them to apply for and obtain a warrant to enable intercept to occur. Implict in
this may be the right of people to communicate without being eavesdropped. The 
use or absence of additional security measures by the communicating parties is
not a consideration.

Unfortunately, the law - deliberately or otherwise - is as full of holes as a 
Swiss cheese. No warrant is requires to tap/bug any communications system 
other that a public system. If a tap is placed upstream of a PBX conected to 
the PSTN or on a private system, then no offence under this Act is committed.
Neither does the Act cover the bugging of speech unsupported by electronic 
transmission. 

I recently became aware that police forces are now coming to bug
interview rooms and cells in the hope of obtaining incriminatory evidence. 
Naturally, such bugging need not be restricted to police or prison premises. 
Where such evidence has been obtained, the courts have determined that it is 
admissible in evidence. Though details of client/attorney discussions taking 
place in police or prison premises have not been submitted in evidence, the 
confidentiality of such discussions (without the presence of technical 
countermeasures) must now be suspect in the extreme. 

Finally, details of numbers calling, numbers called and duration of calls are 
maintained by BT for two years for their own billing and internal traffic 
analysis purposes. Such information is available to the police and government 
agencies without warrant. I understand that the terms of licencing of 
telecommunications services providers, as set out in the UK Telecommunications 
Act 1984, requires that such information shall be made available on request.

All of this has little relevance to the introduction and use of a US speech 
security device that will not be legally exported out of the USA. I do 
believe though that it is of relevance to those in the UK and elsewhere, where
the wider availability of quality speech security equipment will become 
available within the next few years.      

-- 

                               -= Owen Lewis =-
                                      @
      Tele/fax  +44-(0)794-301731   ELOKA   Consultancy & Project Management
                            oml@eloka.demon.co.uk
                        pgp 2.x public key on request
