Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper
Path: msuinfo!agate!ames!olivea!charnel!rat!decwrl!csus.edu!netcom.com!png
From: png@netcom.com (Peter Glaskowsky)
Subject: Re: IC Reverse Engineering Preventative Techniques
Message-ID: <pngC6q2n3.4sn@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
References: <1993May8.015216.3702@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu>
Date: Sat, 8 May 1993 19:11:26 GMT
Lines: 43
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:16403 alt.privacy.clipper:384

From article <1993May8.015216.3702@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu>, by rclark@nyx.cs.du.edu (Robert W. F. Clark):
> It states quite clearly in the recent NIST information that
> the Clipper/Skipjack chips will be encased in such a way that
> removing the chip will destroy the IC.
> ...
> Does anyone know precisely what preventative measures are to be
> used to prevent reverse-engineering, or what methods of preventing
> reverse-engineering are available and commonly-used?

I've discussed this with various people, but it's a long way from my own
work, so this is mostly speculative.

Simple visual examination of an exposed IC can be foiled by adding
additional process steps-- for example, multiple layers of non-doped
silicon or some other insulator to smooth out the surface of the chip,
followed by a layer of opaque material (metal, ceramic, etc.).

Adding a lot of unnecessary complexity to the circuitry and choosing
appropriate materials may make it more difficult to use 3D scanning
systems to figure out how a chip works, too.

There are ways to incorporate active countermeasures into IC packaging,
too. Consider adding tiny capsules of corrosive chemicals into the epoxy
which would be cut open in any mechanical attack on the package. If
there aren't any individual chemicals which would be suitable for this,
use two different chemicals which are separately inert but become highly
corrosive when mixed.

Of course, there would be ways to deal with any of these defenses. Use a
water knife to cut the package open, or cryo-cool the package to disable
chemical defenses and use an optical milling machine to shave off the
top in .00001" increments. For that matter, what kind of resolution is
theoretically achievable with CAT or MRI scanning? I have no idea, but
there may be some related technology which could be used to determine
the structure of the chip, or even watch it while it operates.

I can't imagine how the Clipper chip design or programming will remain
secure against any well-equipped, well-funded foreign intelligence
agency. This suggests that the strength of the system doesn't really
depend on the secrecy of the algorithm, but who knows? Only the NSA...

.                      png

