Newsgroups: alt.security,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!uunet!walter!qualcom.qualcomm.com!unix.ka9q.ampr.org!karn
From: karn@unix.ka9q.ampr.org (Phil Karn)
Subject: Re: Goodbye smartcards
Message-ID: <1993May9.195513.20680@qualcomm.com>
Sender: news@qualcomm.com
Nntp-Posting-Host: unix.ka9q.ampr.org
Reply-To: karn@servo.qualcomm.com
Organization: Qualcomm, Inc
References: <1993May8.082011.8630@infodev.cam.ac.uk> <1993May9.090050.24348@qualcomm.com> <1sjd2oINN4o2@dns1.NMSU.Edu>
Date: Sun, 9 May 1993 19:55:13 GMT
Lines: 54
Xref: msuinfo alt.security:10320 sci.crypt:16419

In article <1sjd2oINN4o2@dns1.NMSU.Edu>, amolitor@nmsu.edu (Andrew Molitor) writes:
|> 	Karn seems to be indicating that the $50M would be saved by the
|> credit card companies, while vastly greater savings would be enjoyed by
|> the other levels of the heirarchy, but this is not clear from the quoted
|> remarks. Is it true?

Actually, I don't know what the actual figures are, direct or
indirect.  The latter may be hard to quantify, but I think it's worth
some effort.  The costs include not only actual losses in merchandise,
but also considerable aggravation and hassle to people like you and me.

For example, shortly after I moved last year somebody stole one of my
Visa card numbers (not the physical card) and used it to phone order
several thousand dollars of furniture from Sears and JC Penney's. I
only discovered what was going on when I started getting back-order
notices forwarded to my new address.

They were having the stuff shipped to my my previous address, which
was vacant at the time. A clever way around the "ship only to address
on the card" policy that many mail-order merchants have, or used to
have.

To their credit, Penney's didn't lose anything because their policy
requires the customer to bring in the card before delivery.  Sears, on
the other hand, gladly shipped their stuff UPS and lost at least part
of it. (I discovered the rest sitting on the front step and had them
pick it up.)

The confirming notices I got in the mail bore an unfamiliar "customer
phone number" with an exchange somewhere near my old house.  A call to
Pac Bell showed it to be an unlisted number for a private residence.
This seemed like a very useful lead, so I reported it to the SD police
fraud division.  The detective said "don't bother us, if the credit
card company wants to pursue it they'll call us."

I have no idea what happened after this. Nothing, as far as I can
tell.  I guess the police around here are too busy breaking down the
doors of innocent people in erroneous drug raids to be bothered with
mundane crimes like credit card fraud.

What a hassle. In fraudulent card-not-present sales, the merchants
take the full loss, so the credit card company has no incentive to
prevent them. Indeed, they seem to go out of their way to stamp your
account numbers on every piece of junk mail they send out, almost as
though they wanted the whole world to know them.

I really like the convenience of mail order. I'd hate to see it go
away because of fraud. And it *really* pisses me off to know that the
smart-card technology exists to make it highly secure, but the credit
card companies couldn't be bothered.

Phil


