Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!csus.edu!netcom.com!grady
From: grady@netcom.com (1016/2EF221)
Subject: Crypto export bans
Message-ID: <gradyC6v8rx.4BI@netcom.com>
Organization: capriccioso
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL6]
Date: Tue, 11 May 1993 14:11:57 GMT
Lines: 50

A piece appeared this morning on comp.dcom.modems that
has more than the usual amount of relevance for 
cryptography:

U.S. WILL PROPOSE LIFTING CURBS ON MODEM EXPORTS, OFFICIALS SAY

The United States will propose in a meeting with its allies in
the next few weeks lifting multilateral restrictions on exports
of high-speed computer modems, U.S. officials said May 4.

The officials said that the proposal, expected to be approved by
the 17-nation Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export
Controls (COCOM), would effectively remove existing government
controls on exports of modems with a transmission capacity of
19.2 kilobytes per second or less.

David R. Salazar, an official at the State Department, said that
the proposal would be transmitted to COCOM for approval "as soon
as possible" after the Commerce Department had published a notice
in the Federal Register concerning the issue.

He said that COCOM - comprising members of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization except Iceland, plus Australia and Japan -
would have four months to approve or reject the proposal, and
that the United States expected it to be approved by early
August.

Salazar was speaking at a meeting of the Telecommunications
Equipment Technical Advisory Committee, an industry advisory
group supported by the Commerce Department.

Other U.S. officials, who declined to be identified, said that
the reason that the United States had decided to propose lifting
existing controls on high-speed modem exports was that the
Commerce Department's Office of Foreign Availability had found
that they were already available, without export controls, in
other countries.

The officials said that a notice describing the agency's
"positive" finding would be published in the Federal Register as
early as later this week.

--------

Now if they only realize that the same availability were true
for DES, RSA and a host of other crypto products...

-- 
grady@netcom.com  2EF221 / 15 E2 AD D3 D1 C6 F3 FC  58 AC F7 3D 4F 01 1E 2F

