Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!malgudi.oar.net!news.ans.net!newsgate.watson.ibm.com!hawnews.watson.ibm.com!chaparral.raleigh.ibm.com!friedman
From: friedman@chaparral.raleigh.ibm.com (Perry Friedman)
Subject: Smart ATM machines (new forgery method)
Sender: news@hawnews.watson.ibm.com (NNTP News Poster)
Message-ID: <C6vpCF.xyt@hawnews.watson.ibm.com>
Date: Tue, 11 May 1993 20:09:50 GMT
Reply-To: jester@vnet.ibm.com (Perry Friedman)
Disclaimer: This posting represents the poster's views, not necessarily those of IBM.
References: <1993May11.130223.18406@cadkey.com>
Nntp-Posting-Host: chaparral.raleigh.ibm.com
Organization: ibm
Lines: 37

In article <1993May11.130223.18406@cadkey.com> eric@cadkey.cadkey.com (Eric Holtman) writes:
>                                    How are you supposed to stop this
>new trick??? 


A friend of mine suggested this solution, and I assume it would work in this
case...  always try a bogus PIN first when trying a new ATM.  If it
doesn't recognize that the PIN is bogus, don't use it and report the
ATM to your bank.

Now, if someone really got a full-fledged working ATM that could actually
make valid transactions, I don't think there is anything you could do...
Well, not exactly.  I suppose if it worked, it would have to have 
cash on hand to make withdrawals... so it would cost them money to run the
machine.  So, you could always try a withdrawal at every ATM you use...
and at least you will cost the perpetrators some money (hopefully
more than they can recover?).  Request large amounts of money, too.
And never make deposits at an ATM.  And change your PIN after every use.

On a similar thread, I know many/most ATMs swallow cards after 3 or so
invlaid PIN guesses.  But, at a previous back I had, they had a phone
number for account access that used the same PIN as the ATM cards.
If someone had stolen/found my card, they could call up the number, try 3
guesses (it actually would hang up on you if you failed 3 times but that's 
all),  call again, and so on until it was guessed.  4 digit PIN.  3334 calls
max.  Now, you could actually make phone withdrawals, I think, but I think
all they would do then is mail you a check to your home address.  But once
you had the PIN, you could go to an ATM and use the card and PIN.   
My current bank is smart and uses different PINs.  

And how secure are ATMs physically?  Could you brute force rob one by smashing
it open?

Not that I want to... just hypothetical security issues.
-- 
Perry Friedman
jester@vnet.ibm.com
