Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!usc!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!news.kei.com!ub!acsu.buffalo.edu!boyd
From: boyd@acsu.buffalo.edu (Daniel F Boyd)
Subject: Re: Smart ATM machines (new forgery method)
Message-ID: <C6vtHq.H1I@acsu.buffalo.edu>
Summary: how about getting a cut off the top every time
Sender: nntp@acsu.buffalo.edu
Nntp-Posting-Host: autarch.acsu.buffalo.edu
Organization: UB
References: <1993May11.130223.18406@cadkey.com>
Date: Tue, 11 May 1993 21:39:26 GMT
Lines: 37


In article <1993May11.130223.18406@cadkey.com> eric@cadkey.cadkey.com
(Eric Holtman) writes:
> Everyone knows you're supposed to be VERY careful about not revealing
> your PIN number for your ATM card.  How are you supposed to stop this
> new trick???  At the Buckland Hills Mall, in Manchester CT, last week,
> some scam artists installed a fake ATM machine.

I've thought of an even bigger worry.  I've heard that some groups of
people will go out and buy ATM machines, print up checks, get office
space, and actually go around ISSUING THEIR OWN CARDS.  Then, when you
walk up to the machine with your card, they take the PIN and withdraw
the money from your account.

But then they ALSO WITHDRAW JUST A LITTLE BIT MORE, and they KEEP IT!
Not so much that you'd notice -- usually it's like 25 cents, but some
of them take UP TO A DOLLAR of your money EACH TIME YOU USE THE ATM!
It's HORRIBLE!  Can you imagine how much money that must add up to in
a given day?

These groups of criminals are easily found -- check your local phone
book under 'Banks'.

I mean, yeah, I suppose this fake ATM thing would be something to
worry about -- if it didn't require so much effort and planning.  I
mean, I can imagine that this might happen ONCE a YEAR anywhere in the
US.  You have much more to worry about from car accidents and steep
banking fees, not to mention high-interest credit cards.

Keep some perspective.


-- 
Daniel F. Boyd -- boyd@cs.buffalo.edu 

"Welcome to the First Church of Appliantology.  The white zone is for
loading and unloading only."
