Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!ira.uka.de!math.fu-berlin.de!news.netmbx.de!Germany.EU.net!sagdae!Germany.EU.net!mcsun!uunet!pipex!uknet!pavo.csi.cam.ac.uk!rja14
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,comp.security.misc
Subject: ATMs
Message-ID: <44.2bf11b53@software-ag.de>
From: rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (Ross Anderson)
Date: 12 May 93 15:44:19 MEZ
Lines: 136
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:16462 alt.security:10344 comp.security.misc:3765

Message-ID: <1993May12.120730.23698@infodev.cam.ac.uk>
Sender: news@infodev.cam.ac.uk (USENET news)
Nntp-Posting-Host: ely.cl.cam.ac.uk
Organization: U of Cambridge Computer Lab, UK
References: <1993May11.130223.18406@cadkey.com>
Date: Wed, 12 May 1993 12:07:30 GMT
Lines: 127
Xref: Germany.EU.net sci.crypt:8292 alt.security:4365 comp.security.misc:3486

In article <1993May11.130223.18406@cadkey.com>, eric@cadkey.cadkey.com 
(Eric Holtman) writes:

|> Everyone knows you're supposed to be VERY careful about not revealing
|> your PIN number for your ATM card.  How are you supposed to stop this
|> new trick???  At the Buckland Hills Mall, in Manchester CT, last week,
|> some scam artists installed a fake ATM machine.  They had negotiated
|> with the Mall officers, pretending to be Bank officials, and had gotten
|> permission.  Apparantly, they even got the pone company to come in and
|> lay down some lines.  Then, they installed an ATM machine they had stolen.
|> 
|> It was programmed to read off the account numbers, remember the PIN as it
|> was typed, then claim some kind of error and refuse to give out money.
|> They left the machine in the mall for a WEEK, collecting PINs, then they
|> came back, took it machine back to "repair", and have since printed up
|> new cards, and have been using the PINs to siphon off money.....

It's not new at all. Somebody in the 1970's built a false front which they fixed 
to ATMs; it looked like the real machine but all it did was record the PIN and
retain the card.

The next one was first reported in about 1988; crooks built a cigarette machine
which would accept any bank card and PIN, and dispense a packet of cigarettes.
This was in the USA. Since then, this type of fraud has been on the increase.

In early 1992, for example, I got a report from Holland that some petrol stations 
were capturing card and PIN data.

In mid 1992, there was a report from High Wycombe, England, that market stall
traders were accepting cards and PINs using a PC with a card reader and numeric
keypad. This even printed out nice official looking receipts. Gievn that many
POS systems are PC based, how could the customers be blamed?

In October 1992, an article in `Banking Technology' (``Where Cash is King'', pp
38 - 41, by D Lane) looked at the problems of ATM systems in Italy. They have
the highest fraud in the world, at almost half a percent of turnover. It is due
to bogus ATMs which the Mafia install to collect card and PIN data. Although
the article does not admit it, I would suspect that Mafia owned banks may also
be recording the card and PIN data of other banks' customers who use the network.

In early 1993, I got a report of people selling stolen video recorders in South 
London using the same kind of kit as that used in High Wycombe.

I am assisting the police in a case where two men were caught building false 
terminal equipment. The banks refused to testify: they don't want to admit that
their systems can possibly be defrauded. They would have preferred it if these
low lifers had ripped off their customers.

So they won't inform their cardholders publicly of the risk, but in March 1993, 
VISA's CEO announced a move to online terminals, card verification values, and a 
tamper-resistant magnetic strip (see my posting a few days ago). This came out 
in a newsletter which costs hundreds of pounds a year and is normally only read 
by bank managers. In this forum, they seem to have no difficulty admitting and 
discussing the fraud problem!

Incidentally, I don't believe VISA's measures will be enough, as false terminal 
attacks are only the tip of the iceberg (outside italy, that is). There are 
plenty other ways in which ATMs can be ripped off.

One problem is that a number of banks don't check the PIN properly when their
machines are offline. This means that anyone can use a stolen card. Others have
some kind of stand-in PIN verification; one UK bank, for example, used to issue
PINs to its credit card holders such that digit 1 + digit 4 = digit 2 + digit 3.
(Its cash card holders get digit 1 + digit 3 = digit 2 + digit 4, just to make 
it a bit harder for the sort of crook produced by our modern educational system). 
Here, too, once someone has worked out the system in use, they can use stolen 
cards easily, and even make up cards with account numbers from discarded ATM 
tickets. This was demonstrated in a UK newspaper (Sunday Telegraph, 25/4/93 p 5).

The majority of ATM problems, however, stem from implementation blunders. One
bank's ATMs had the property that when a phonecard was inserted, they thought 
that the previous customer had put his card in again. Street urchins found this
out, and used to stand in line behind the bank's customers, observe their PINs,
and then loot their accounts.

Another bank issued all its customers with the same PIN. Yet another had a `test
dispense' facility in the ATM, which didn't need a card but just a secret number,
and printed this number in its branch operations manual. Yet another has a teller
card which lets them take money out of anyone's account. The list goes on and on.

Most of the rest come from internal fraud. There was a case recently in Paisley,
Scotland, where an ATM service engineer had used a handheld computer to record
customer PINs and account details.

There are plenty of cases where a bank teller issued an extra card on a customer
account and made one or two transactions. If this happens to you, the chances are
you won't notice it; and if you complain, the bank will tell you to get lost.

If you persist, you will be told that `our systems are infallible, so you must 
have been ripped off by one of your friends or relatives'. The banks were 
criticized for this attitude by one of Scotland's top law officers over the 
Paisley case, but they haven't changed their behaviour: I am currently helping 
to defend two separate people who've been falsely charged with theft after a 
`phantom withdrawal' took place while they were near enough to fall under 
suspicion.

So please let me know if you have any relevant experiences to add to the file.
If you used to work for a bank and can give testimony, even better: we're 
talking about the liberty of real people here, not just academic research. 
Clipper may never convict an innocent person, but the banks' ATM systems have 
already done this.

In 1985, a teenager called Janet Bagwell from Ashton under Lyme, England, was 
falsely accused of stealing 40 pounds, and pleaded guilty when her solicitor 
advised her that a defence was futile. She has since disappeared, and it turned 
out that there was never any theft; it was a clerical error by the Midland Bank 
(which they tried to hush up). If anybody knows her, tell her to get in touch 
as her lawyers want to try to get her a royal pardon, plus a big pot of bucks
from the so-called `Listening Bank'.

If the world were just, then the bank officials responsible would do jail time 
for conspiracy to pervert the course of justice.

However, the English criminal justice system is not effective against rich 
crooks, as there are too many things the lawyers can get up to. For example, the 
conviction rate on big fraud cases is maybe one in ten. Banks, of course, are 
the richest crooks of all, and so the best we can expect in these ATM cases is 
an acquittal (though with luck we might dig out some damages in a subsequent 
civil action).

My article on ATM fraud has dozens of cases and a multitude of different ways
to rob an ATM. As a result, it's now too long to post, and in any case it's been 
submitted to a conference - the ACM conference on Computer and Communications 
Security (3-5 November at Fairfax, Virginia). See you there,


Ross Anderson
