Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!uunet!newsgate.watson.ibm.com!hawnews.watson.ibm.com!chaparral.raleigh.ibm.com!friedman
From: friedman@chaparral.raleigh.ibm.com (Perry Friedman)
Subject: One time pads?
Sender: news@hawnews.watson.ibm.com (NNTP News Poster)
Message-ID: <C6yyJ8.15AE@hawnews.watson.ibm.com>
Date: Thu, 13 May 1993 14:21:08 GMT
Disclaimer: This posting represents the poster's views, not necessarily those of IBM.
Nntp-Posting-Host: chaparral.raleigh.ibm.com
Organization: ibm
Lines: 44


Some people have pointed out that you can't generate all messages of length
X with a key < X.  True.  So why not just use the key?  Well, there are 
reasons why you might not want to, depending on the applications.
You may want to have keys that can be easily rememberable.  So if you
can translate some alphanumeric key to something looking much more "random",
it is easier to distribute/remember the key than the "pad" or other
permutation it will produce.  You don't want keys that must be written down
or stored in any fashion because the encryption then is only as secure as
the storage of the key.  Therefore, alphanumer, easily remembered keys have
a big advantage.  
For some applications, very shprt messages - shorter than the keys - could
be desirable or useful.

If all you need to transmit is "1" or "A", which the receiver will then
know how to interpret... well....

Which brings me to something else... about the Clipper.  People have been
discussing whether or not the govt will allow encrypted data to be sent
over the Clipper.  But can they stop it?  How do you define encryption?
Can I not talk pig-latin?  Can I not use slang that the FBI won't understand?
Or nicknames for friends instead of their real names?

Can they stop the old codes like "The blue sparrow flies at dawn" ?
There are many ways of "encrypting" data which is not the kind of 
encryption we are use to talking about.  
Agent A and Agent B have books of various possible plans to execute.
Agent A just needs to tell B "157" and that could be all they need.

For data transfer it gets worse:
Can I not send compressed files?  Tar'd files?  ZIP'd files?  DOS files?
What file formats are legal?  Suppose I have a proprietary file type that
just so happens is that the file is first DES encrypted?  Can one not
send binary files?  Can one not send data files?  How does anyone know
what format your data is really in?  And even if you do, what it means to
the person receiving it?  Drug dealer A sends the number 100.  B sends
back 5.  What does it mean?  


Just things to think about.

-- 
Perry Friedman
jester@vnet.ibm.com
