Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!cs.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: tcorcora@sunlab.cit.cornell.edu (Travis Corcoran)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: keyspace
Date: 13 May 1993 12:58:22 -0500
Organization: UTexas Mail-to-News Gateway
Lines: 41
Sender: daemon@cs.utexas.edu
Message-ID: <9305131758.AA19919@beebalm.cit.cornell.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: cs.utexas.edu


     Perry Friedman said:

    Some people have pointed out that you can't generate all messages of length
    X with a key < X.  True.  So why not just use the key?  Well, there are 
    reasons why you might not want to, depending on the applications.
    You may want to have keys that can be easily rememberable.  So if you
    can translate some alphanumeric key to something looking much more "random"
    it is easier to distribute/remember the key than the "pad" or other
    permutation it will produce.  You don't want keys that must be written down
    or stored in any fashion because the encryption then is only as secure as
    the storage of the key.  Therefore, alphanumer, easily remembered keys have
    a big advantage.  

I say:

   The problem with this is that you are implementing a function f that
   implements a n-to-1 mapping from x to x, where x is the keyspace. (I'm
   assuming that n is 1, but it doesn't have to be for my argument). But
   you are only using a subset of x of size |x'| as valid initial keys
   (you wanted them to memorable).  Given the mapping, this will result
   in at most |x'| different secondary keys.  Thus, your keyspace is only
   a subset of what it could be.  If I known the algorithms, I can write
   a program that sorts through x, selects only those that are "easy to
   remember" (assume English words, repetition, patterns, etc.),
   processes these with f, and spits out the secondary keys that could
   reasonably be used.  I've drastically reduced the keyspace I need to
   search (by brute force...).

   If anyone sees flaws with this, mail, post, or flame.... (I'm ready
   for excitement, my diff equ final is over  ;)

   ---
   Travis Corcoran           tcorcora@sunlab.cit.cornell.edu

   Who is more likely to stop the government from pushing 'The Button' -
   nonviolent protesters crying around the peace tree, or nasty individuals
   saying 'Go ahead and push the f---ing button.  We're heavily armed, well
   prepared, and ready to hunt your ass down after the fallout settles'?
   - 'Commander Zeep' (Loompanics 1988 Fall Catalog/ Smurfs in Hell #4)

