Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!natinst.com!ornl!idt
From: idt@ornl.gov (SCHMIDT R W)
Subject: Re: [comp.risks] Call for Comments from NIST
Message-ID: <1993May18.211942.12983@ornl.gov>
Summary: Target applications for the Clipper
Sender: Russ Schmidt (idt@ornl.gov)
Organization: Oak Ridge National Laboratory
References: <1srlsg$74q@transfer.stratus.com>
Date: Tue, 18 May 1993 21:19:42 GMT
Lines: 67
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:16573 alt.privacy.clipper:463

Target Applications for the Clipper Chip

I have been following the discussion of the proposed Clipper Chip with 
some interest.  While many good points have been made about the 
potential for insecurity, loss of privacy, and abuse of Government 
authority, I think that the discussion has strayed far from the likely 
target of the Clipper proposal.

Currently there are very few people who know or care much about secure 
communications, and even fewer who actually use secure communication 
techniques on a routine basis.  While the activities of this small 
group may irritate the NSA, FBI, etc, I seriously doubt that it 
worries them enough to develop and implement something like the 
Clipper chip.

There is, however, a large group of people who are about to begin 
using some form of secure communication in the near future, even 
though they know nothing about it.  The market for cellular phones, 
cellular fax machines, and other wireless communications is rapidly 
expanding.  It is starting to dawn on the people who use these devices 
that they really are broadcasting in the clear on a radio, and that 
anyone with some simple equipment can listen in.  This lack of 
security, and the great need to use data compression and other 
techniques to increase throughput across the limited bandwidth 
available will require the telecommunications industry to develop 
and implement some standard form of compression and encryption in 
the very near future.

I believe that the Clipper proposal is intended to preempt the 
widespread use of secure encryption in mass-market cellular phones, 
fax machines, and other devices by implementing a tappable standard 
before a more secure alternative becomes readily available.  If 
Clipper becomes the standard for AT&T and other major wireless 
communications service providers, it will effectively shut out 
competing products which may provide more security.

Some have suggested that the intent of the Clipper proposal is to 
replace all telephone and data links, including wired devices, with 
Clipper-equipped devices.  This would be extremely expensive, and 
counter productive, since most wired communications are currently in 
the clear and therefore easy to tap.  

I think the argument that "drug dealers and other bad guys will not 
use Clipper devices because they know the Government is listening" is 
mostly bogus, because it presupposes a higher level of sophistication 
than most of these folks possess.  At present they seem perfectly 
willing to broadcast their activities to the world over unencrypted 
cellular phones, so a "secure" phone would seem like a great 
improvement.  In fact, I suspect that to the majority of Americans 
(honest and dishonest alike) a sticker on that new cellular phone that 
says "This device uses encryption techniques approved by the US 
Government" would be a strong selling point.

In short, I think that the Clipper is intended prevent untappable 
communications from appearing in mass-market products.  The 
possibility of killing off some of the existing minor uses of secure 
encryption is just a side benefit to the NSA and other agencies, and 
one that they may be willing to forgo.  Although the Government's 
press release sounded ominously like a prelude to banning all 
non-escrowed encryption, a popular outcry may prevent such  an 
action.  If the Government succeeds in getting the Clipper in 
mass-market devices, they have not lost anything by allowing 
non-escrowed encryption techniques to continue to be used in 
specialized applications.

Russ Schmidt
idt@ornl.gov
