Newsgroups: alt.security.pgp,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uchinews!att-out!cbnewsh!wcs
From: wcs@cbnewsh.cb.att.com (Bill Stewart 1-908-949-0705)
Subject: Re: `Import Controls' on cryptography do not exist
Reply-To: wcs@anchor.att.com
Organization: Widespread Panic
Date: Mon, 17 May 1993 23:10:51 GMT
Message-ID: <C771q7.n57@cbnewsh.cb.att.com>
X-Stupid-News-Server-Dropping-Nntp: cbnewsh.cb.att.com
In-Reply-To: gnu@toad.com's message of 17 May 93 06:03:49 GMT
References: <1993Apr27.204235.21266@olias.linet.org> <C6qqGy.2rE@adikia.sccsi.com>
	<WCS.93May12172911@rainier.ATT.COM> <34620@toad.com>
Sender: wcs@anchor.att.com
Lines: 77
Xref: msuinfo alt.security.pgp:3071 sci.crypt:16585


In article <34620@toad.com> gnu@toad.com (John Gilmore) writes:
   wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (Bill Stewart +1-908-949-0705) wrote:
   > It does not appear to be illegal to import crypto software,
   > though the rules are messy and obfuscatory enough that some people
   > contend otherwise, and a US-written IDEA implementation would reduce
   > the risk of harassment, though the fact that the NSA would not like a
   > court ruling supporting legal imports also reduces that risk.

   I have consistently challenged every person who comes to me with this
   rumor or "import controls" to substantiate it.  [.....]
	   NOBODY HAS!
   They all slink off.  Some promise to look it up, but never do.  Others
   just admit that they don't really know but they heard it from somebody.

I'm in the third category here; I've looked through the excerpts I
have of the law, and my county library's copy of the U.S.Code
has not been up to date even to 1985 levels on the Privacy Act laws,
so I haven't bothered checking there.

   Until you hear otherwise, WITH REFERENCES YOU CAN CHECK, you can assume
   that there is no law or regulation that controls the import of
   cryptography into the U.S.

I disagree that that's a safe assumption, though I think I agree it's correct.
When there are a bunch of thugs willing to throw people in jail for N years,
confiscating your assets so you can't use them to pay for your own defense,
and willing to change laws to ban things that got away (as the language
in the Clipper announcements strongly implies they're considering),
I'm not willing to state categorically that it's safe to do,
unless you've got the lawyers, guns and money to defend your position,
or at least not until I've read *every* law there is on the subject.
We're dealing with governments. 

In particular, the Constitution says that the Federal government has
the right to regulate foreign commerce, which unfortunately means they
can arbitrarily interfere with private transactions between people
here and people in other countries.  If they can interfere with
imports of sugar and DRAM, they can interfere with imports of software,
and if you want to *export* any products that require an export license
you're at risk, especially if you publicly admit importing crypto software
or belong to incorrect political parties or whatever.

John, in your case you've done a lot of good work challenging these
folks, but you've known what you're doing when you started.
It's not something to be done lightly, and I don't want to encourage
someone to be the next Steve Jackson raid victim when we can do a 
US-based implementation of IDEA.  Tony Patti mentioned, during the
October 1991 ITAR discussions on the net, that when he was appealing
an export license ruling he "coincidentally" got a demand from the IRS
for more taxes (which was incorrect, but interestingly timed.)
He also discussed the differences in results you get between
asking permission for exports (NSA says no, Commerce says yes,
State says "NSA wins", all looking at about the same body of law),
vs. doing something first, which they may not have authority to ban.
But we're playing for high stakes here.

You're also in the interesting position of supporting free software,
which appears from the excerpts I've seen to get lots more slack than
various flavors of commercial licensed products.

   Bill Stewart ought to know better than to keep spreading this rumor --
   I've asked HIM for his sources enough times.  He's toned it down to
   "It does not appear to be illegal, but...".

I think it's either been once or twice directly, and I suppose I should have
responded directly, but I think I've changed everything I've written
since your last email to me to *not* state that it's illegal.
Updating the posting it was a response to is on my copious-spare-time list,
though it is fairly high up.

			Bill
-- 

				Pray for peace;      Bill
#Bill Stewart 908-949-0705 wcs@anchor.ho.att.com AT&T Bell Labs 4M312 Holmdel NJ
# Any technology distinguishable from magic is not sufficiently advanced ...
