Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!digex.com!access!pooka
From: pooka@access.digex.net (Louis Emmet Mahoney)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Rubber-hose-resistant crypto file system
Date: 19 May 1993 18:04:27 -0400
Organization: Express Access Online Communications, Greenbelt, MD USA
Lines: 43
Message-ID: <pooka.737847508@access>
References: <1tdjpjINNkk1@hal.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: access.digex.net
Keywords: cryptographic file system, notebook computer

howard@hal.com (Howard Gayle) writes:

>      ABSTRACT

>I sketch the design of an encrypted file system for a notebook
>computer.  The system allows for the use of multiple keys.  If
>only some of the keys are known, then only the files encrypted
>with those keys are accessible.  Files encrypted with unknown
>keys are indistinguishable from free space in the file system.
>This allows a user to reveal some keys to an opponent, keep
>other keys secret, yet claim plausibly to have revealed all
>keys.

<details deleted>

Neat idea, but once it is known it is only resistant to the efforts of
very naive hosemen.  If this method is known to be available, the
competent hoseman could/should presume it to be in use when the index of
suspicion is sufficiently high, and reapply the hose if the plaintext
resulting from use of the first, second,... nth keys is benign. 

Once the method is developed, proven, and known to be available, use of
any encryption at all should constitute a sufficient reason for suspicion
that this method might be in use.  For examples of reasoning, see comments
elsewhere demonstrating the attitudes of several net-persons that only
drug lords and terrorists use encryption. 

The net result might well be a few more rounds with the hose on the
reporter, and perhaps a few hours delay in the ultimate decryption, but no
increase in "plausible deniability."

I assume for discussion that there is a practical way to create equally
plausible "true" and "sanitised" versions of the plaintext(s), fast enough
to be virtually simultaneous, without leaving traces of the method on the
hard disk or elsewhere nearby.  That of course would be a dead giveaway
that the method is in use. 

Of course, the sophisticated hoseperson might not need to decrypt (or even
identify) the ciphertext - once he suspects the holder, he could force out
the primary information just as easily as he could force out the real key(s). 

  -pooka

