Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!wupost!mont!mizzou1.missouri.edu!C445585
From: C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu (John Kelsey)
Subject: S-box design and differential cryptanalysis
Message-ID: <16BD6E7A0.C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu>
Sender: news@mont.cs.missouri.edu
Nntp-Posting-Host: mizzou1.missouri.edu
Organization: University of Missouri
Date: Sat, 22 May 93 16:28:16 CDT
Lines: 36

   I read an article in the Eurocrypt '91, "An Expanded Set of S-box
Design Criteria Based on Information Theory and its Relation to Differential
Like Attacks."  They discuss several important criteria for S-box design,
and analyze the S-boxes of the DES.  They contend that the DES's S-boxes
were about as good as any they could find that both met their information-
theoretic criteria and the DES's rule that one input bit's change must cause
at least two output bits to change for any S-box.   They then came up with
many S-boxes that they claimed were better from an information-theoretic
point-of-view, but which didn't meet the DES's rule.
 
   The article left me with some questions:
 
1.   Has anyone tried the new sets of S-boxes, to see how resistant they are
to attack?  For example, would the use of S-boxes with stronger information-
theoretic attributes make it harder to break a reduced-rounds version of the
DES, with these variant S-boxes?
 
2.   Are there attacks that are made possible because some S-boxes don't
meet the DES rule that one changed input bit must always lead to two changed
output bits?  This seems like it might make some sort of adaptive chosen
plaintext attack easier.
 
3.   In the Biham and Shamir article, it was mentioned that by moving around
the S-boxes, it was possible to weaken the DES enormously against differential
attacks.  Would different S-boxes change this, or is there inevitably some
large variation  between the weakest and strongest way of arranging the
S-boxes?  (Of course, changing the bit-permutation P could also have this
effect.)
 
4.   It should now be fairly easy to design a DES-like system that resists
differential cryptanalysis, and that uses a larger key and more rounds.  Has
anyone done this?  Or are their other odd things in the DES's S-box criteria
that nobody seems able to explain, that might imply the existence of another
as-yet unknown attack?
 
   --John Kelsey, c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu
