Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!wupost!uunet!seas.smu.edu!utacfd.uta.edu!rwsys!sneaky!gordon
From: gordon@sneaky.lonestar.org (Gordon Burditt)
Subject: Re: Rubber-hose-resistant crypto file system
Message-ID: <C7Ht53.9Ln@sneaky.lonestar.org>
Organization: Gordon Burditt
References: <1tdjpjINNkk1@hal.com> <1te7m9INN9bb@golden.kaleida.com>
Date: Sun, 23 May 1993 18:38:53 GMT
Lines: 40
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:16656 alt.privacy:7014

>Why not use a public key system, leaving the private key at home in the
>safe. Use the public key to encrypt your notes. When safely out of the
>country, you can decrypt them.

Because if you get caught with encrypted material and don't give them
the key, or use a privacy-resistant technology like Clipper, you won't 
get out of the country.   (This wouldn't surprise me at all in countries 
that stomp all over people's rights, like the USA by 1996).  Or if you do, 
it will be without your notes, and it might be in 5 years in a prisoner 
exchange, after you've had a long time in prison eating rats and trying 
not to have them eat you while you're asleep.  The advantage of the 
proposed rubber-hose-resistant file system is that, after you give them 
one or two keys, they can't prove that there's any more encrypted material 
to get keys to.  Assuming the country involved needs at least a little 
proof before throwing you in jail, this is an important difference to 
the reporter.

A disadvantage of this system is that after everyone starts using it,
they'll keep torturing you after you have given them all the keys,
because they won't believe it's all the keys.

Public-key systems might work well for stuff you transmit out of the country
via your INMARSAT terminal, for use only when you get some really
sensitive and damning material.  When you start transmitting it, the
government may realize that you're transmitting encrypted material
and try to stop you, but they may not react in time to stop most of it
from getting out.  You may have sacrificed your own life transmitting
the material, but once they've got you, the material has already been
sent.

>Sort of like keeping some cash in the register, and putting any extra in
>a time lock safe you don't know the combination to. If your lucky, they
>might buy the "I can't open the safe" story".

And if you're not lucky, as long as they know for sure that there IS
a safe, they keep cutting off body parts until you tell them the 
combination.  Too bad if you don't know it.

						Gordon L. Burditt
						sneaky.lonestar.org!gordon
