Path: msuinfo!agate!apple!kaleida.com!jfenton.kaleida.com!Fenton
From: Jay Fenton <Fenton@Kaleida.Com>
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Secure Authentication of Unusual Interests
Date: 24 May 1993 17:28:31 GMT
Organization: Kaleida Labs, Inc.
Lines: 47
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <1tr0jvINNsa3@golden.kaleida.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: jfenton.kaleida.com
X-UserAgent: Nuntius v1.1.1d12
X-XXMessage-ID: <A82655573C010B1C@jfenton.kaleida.com>
X-XXDate: Mon, 24 May 93 10:35:03 GMT

One feature of Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs) that is sure to be
popular is sexual preference beaconing. I will tell my PDA what kind of
sex partner I am interested in, and it will broadcast query signals to
other peoples PDAs when they come into range. If a compatible person is
nearby, it will let me know by vibrating eagerly. This scenario presents
interesting cryptological problems:

Imagine Alan and Larry are two gay people with PDAs. Also imagine an
opponent, Jesse, who wishes to discover Alan and Larry's sexual
orientation so he can deny them their civil rights. How can Alan and
Larry communicate with each other, without Jesse being able to detect
what there common interest is?

Assume that the Gay/Lesbian Authentication Directorate (GLAD) has
screened both Alan and Larry and certifies that they are to be trusted.
GLAD then issues them keys that they can use to recognize each other (and
other GLAD members).

Here is one scenario:

Alan's and Larry's PDAs find each other and establish a secure session
key using Diffie/Hillman. Each person sends the other a list of encrypted
messages. Each message represents a disclosure of an unusual interest,
like "I am gay", or "I like model railroad trains", and so on. If a
person only has a few, random numbers are sent to pad out the message.
Each message is encoded with a public key issued by GLAD, or the Toy
Train Society, or whatever.

The receiving station applys all private keys to all messages. The only
ones that decode to intelligable messages are the ones that both sides
are authorized to disclose to each other.

So far so good, but imagine that Jesse is devious and blackmails Harry
into giving him his GLAD key (he could also fool GLAD into certifying
him, same thing). While he still could not read the traffic between Alan
and Larry, he could pretend to be Harry and interrogate Alan and Larry's
PDAs and discover the secret.

Certainly if Harry had second thoughts he could tell GLAD what he did
(perhaps anonymously), and the compromised key could be revoked. An
improvement would be to design the protocol such that if something bad
happened to Alan or Larry that one can determine that the leak came from
Harry (or at least from a group of people, one of which is Harry). Then
if Jesse acts on his illicit knowledge too often, we can track him down.

I am interested in everyone thoughts on the cryptological problems
presented by this scenario.
