Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!pipex!uknet!acorn!eoe!ahaley
From: ahaley@eoe.co.uk (Andrew Haley)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Goodbye smartcards
Message-ID: <1773@eouk5.eoe.co.uk>
Date: 25 May 93 10:57:47 GMT
References: <1993May24.095724.9973@dxcern.cern.ch>
Organization: EO Europe Limited, Cambridge, UK
Lines: 58
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL8]

Frode Weierud (frode@dxcern.cern.ch) wrote:

: We should perhaps move this discussion to alt.security as it has
: very little to do with cryptography.  To get a better handle on
: my "digital cash" term I have also contacted a banking friend of
: mine and he contradicts some of the statements made by my
: Schlumberger Smart Card friend. 

: What my SmartCard friend called cash cards are in banking circles
: called debit cards. Credit cards and debit cards together are called
: bank cards. The debit cards, while allowing you to get cash from
: ATMs are also used as as Anthony mentions as electronic cheques.
: One such card is EuroCheque which is well implemented in Europe.
: In Switzerland this card can be used at POS terminals, which are
: called EC Direct.  No signature is needed to use this card at a POS
: terminal, only the card and your 6 digit PIN code is used.  The
: PTT (Post, Telephone and Telegraph) cards that I have mentioned earlier
: can also be used at POS terminals.

: The banker claims that the term "digital cash" is no longer used
: in bank and financial circles. He says this term was coined long ago
: when people invented cash- and paperless banking, but that it 
: quickly went out of use.  The correct term to use is EFT and EFTPOS,
: Electronic Financial Transaction and Electronic Financial Transaction at
: Point Of Sale.

That's Electronic Funds Transfer.

There seems to be some confusion here.  It would help if we used some
different terminology: "electronic cash" is a protocol, using
smartcards, which is used to transfer cash _without the relationship
between the user and his purchases being traceable by anyone_.  This
is distinct from POS, debit cards, etc.  Ideally, electronic cash has
three attributes:

1.  Untraceability: No-one can discover any information about what a
user purchases.

2.  Unreusability: The ability to transfer electronic cash more than
once must be prevented.

3.  Transferability: The electronic cash can be transferred to other
users.

: So I am convinced that I was wrong in using the term "digital cash"
: and I promise never to use it again, :-).

OK.

Andrew.

References:

D. Chaum, "Security without Identification: Transaction Systems to
make Big Brother obsolete," CACM 28, 10, pp. 1030-1044 (1985)

D. Chaum, A. Fiat, and M.Naur, "Untraceable Electronic Cash,"
proceedings of CRYPTO '88.
