Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!darwin.sura.net!bogus.sura.net!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!umn.edu!sctc.com!smith
From: smith@sctc.com (Rick Smith)
Subject: Re: Secure Authentication of Unusual Interests
Message-ID: <1993May25.151250.12717@sctc.com>
Organization: SCTC
References: <1tr0jvINNsa3@golden.kaleida.com> <1trtd0INNme@golden.kaleida.com>
Date: Tue, 25 May 1993 15:12:50 GMT
Lines: 50

This is not a well thought out concept. It's sort of an anonymous
solicitation problem, where there is a significant perceived cost to
soliciting the wrong individual. Please use your dictionary and for
the moment ignore any nasty connotations inherent in the word
"solicit" -- I use it because it best identifies the activity. Once
two individuals identify each other as members, future interactions
aren't "anonymous solicitations".

The concept assumes that the uncertainties in existing solicitation
protocols (based on social interaction) might somehow become more
reliable or effective if we throw crypto into it.

If the social interaction protocols are unreliable, then a crypto
protocol doesn't increase their reliabilty. It just means that group
members are dependent on the reliability of the certification
authority. This authority in turn must apply those unreliable social
interaction protocols to accurately identify group members. Thus,
group members lose control over their ability to mask their group
membership from others via social manipulation. Flaws in the crypto
will unmask them, and there's no way the crypto mechanism will
reduce threats of disclosure.

And we still haven't gotten to Fenton's other security threat:

>The protocol I illustrated seems to me to work fine as long as the
>opponent can not get access to the decode key through skullduggery like
>turning authorized persons or infiltrating the organization.

This is a fundamental threat that makes the ideal infeasible. It's
like the problem with today's electric cars: they work fine as long as
you don't drive them very much.

There is also another proposed use of this protocol:

> ... Another version is "its OK for someone
>else in the resistance to know I am a freedom fighter, but not the
>Gestapo" and so on.

If these "freedom fighters" are fighting a war, then there are simpler
and equally (un)reliable ways to identify friends in a serious
emergency.  In general it would be a breach of group security to be
able to identify group members that you don't otherwise need to deal
with. This mode of thinking is covered in most good spy novels.

Actually, to get back to my use of the word "solicitation" it seems
like this kind of protocol is useful primarily for soliciting illegal
transactions (prostitution, drugs, etc). But the reilability remains
about the same. Cops can go around transmitting the "solicit" code
once they manage to collect a key. Then they can roll up an entire
organization in one bust. Some might consider this a feature.
