Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!wupost!mont!mizzou1.missouri.edu!C445585
From: C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu (John Kelsey)
Subject: Re: Information on FEAL encryption?
Message-ID: <16BD914C7A.C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu>
Sender: news@mont.cs.missouri.edu
Nntp-Posting-Host: mizzou1.missouri.edu
Organization: University of Missouri
Date: Tue, 25 May 93 23:38:34 CDT
Lines: 28

   I beleive the prize for breaking FEAL was for demonstrating a method for
breaking it given a fairly small number of known plaintexts (in ECB mode)
or chosen plaintexts (in CBC mode).  I never heard whether anyone broke it.
The differential method Biham and Shamir worked out requires encryption of
chosen plaintexts (or really, really large numbers of known-plaintexts with
a somewhat random distribution), so I don't know whether this prize was ever
collected.
 
   I'd guess that FEAL has shown a "certificational weakness," in that the
published attacks, while possibly not practical as shown, imply weaknesses
in the algorithm that may make other attacks too easy.
 
   The only nonlinearity in the FEAL-NX algorithms is in the S0 and S1
boxes.  Both are 16-bit to 8-bit substitutions based on modulo 256 addition
and bit rotation.  This is the weakness that allowed the attacks that have
been published, I think.
 
   I wonder if there's some way of measuring, for a given F function, how
many rounds in a Feistel transformation are necessary to eliminate any
weaknesses.  Clearly, IBM, NSA, or someone knew enough about differential
cryptanalysis or some closely-related technique to choose just the right
number of rounds, just the right S-box criteria (?), etc.  It seems like
there should be a way of determining that the output block from the nth
round really, really contains no usable patterns, but then, someone can
still sometimes find some special input values (or input value differences)
for which some pattern emerges.  Hrmmmmm.....
 
   --John Kelsey, c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu
