Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!sdd.hp.com!nigel.msen.com!yale.edu!yale!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Subject: Do compressed files look like encrypted files?
Message-ID: <930530170616.097733@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Date: Sun, 30 May 1993 17:06:00 GMT
Lines: 33


Doesn't sorting through these apparently random bits at least
complicate life for the TLOs?

An excellent question.  The answer depends in part upon the agency.  If
you are the NSA, the answer is "somewhat."  However you are a large and
resourceful agency for whom this is the only job.  You do things
wholesale.  You can recognize any public code very quickly.  You also
rely in part upon source and destination.  For example, you do not worry
too much about noisy traffic between banks.

On the other hand, if you are a smaller agency with limited resources,
such as the FBI, and have other responsibilities, the answer is an
emphatic 'YES!!"  Note that the FBI is in a panic over the use of
digital, though public, codes to carry voice.  They have no hope of
being able to cope with digital traffic in secret codes.  That is why
they want to compromise it up front.  

While the FBI emphasizes the role of wiretapping in producing evidence
of a crime, this use is trivial; fewer than a thousand warrants a year.
The use that they want to protect is that of identifying crime, and to a
lesser extent, investigating it.  Some of this wiretapping is at least
extra-legal.  However, much of it, particularly that aimed at radio
(e.g., cellular) telephone is both productive and legal.  

Nonetheless, the TLOs are all threatened by the increased use of digital
codes, public, private, and secret.  They are stakeholders in the status
quo.  Any such revolutionary change is bound to threaten them and has
the potential to destroy them.

William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104; New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
1-0-ATT-0-700-WMURRAY; WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
