Newsgroups: alt.privacy,sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper
Path: msuinfo!agate!spool.mu.edu!sdd.hp.com!col.hp.com!csn!yuma!ld231782
From: ld231782@LANCE.ColoState.Edu (L. Detweiler)
Subject: Endangered Bureacrat Jokes
Sender: news@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU (News Account)
Message-ID: <Jun01.014021.58568@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU>
Date: Tue, 01 Jun 1993 01:40:21 GMT
References: <1F7D5B2w165w@sytex.com>
Nntp-Posting-Host: lindsey.lance.colostate.edu
Organization: Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO  80523
Lines: 106
Xref: msuinfo alt.privacy:7135 sci.crypt:16787 alt.privacy.clipper:532

fergp@sytex.com (Paul Ferguson) writes:
[from Washington Post]
> "We feel we need these tools to do our job," said James K.
> Kallstrom, the FBI's chief of investigative technology. Kallstrom
> said if the FBI can't get industry to make the changes, disaster
> could occur. "I don't have a lot of dead bodies laying around
> here or dead children from an airplane explosion that we haven't
> been able to solve -- yet."

Does *anyone* fall for this kind of bizarre rhetoric?

Actually, I read these comments with a bit of glee; they are the 
desolate screeches of bureacrats being painted into a corner by
not only the world but themselves...  (Ah, the beauty of self-reinforcing
cycles, accelerated by feedback.)  

* * *

Ok, to prove I'm not an incorrigible cynic..

Hey everyone, lets start a joke list!


Q. How many endangered bureacrats does it take to screw in a light bulb?

A1. We're not sure, they prefer to hide in the shadows.
A2. We don't know, we can't find any. Have you seen any?
A3. You only need one, but each only works once because they invariably
manage to electrocute themselves in the process.
A4. You must fill out form KT-398930-0-3893-1z(321.31x*) in sextuplicate, 
``Requisition for Light Amplification and Enhancement Device Facilities and 
Staff Resources and Efficacy Data Measures Projections and Speculations.'' 
Invisible ink only.  Reply will be shipped on punch cards by carrier pigeon
after brief administrative period. Offer void where prohibited. Prohibited
in this universe.


Q. How many FBI agents does it take to wiretap?

A1. All of them. One to hold the alligator clips and the rest to convince
the Congress and American public ``he's just doing his job''.
A2. FBI doesn't actually `wiretap,' a groundless popular myth. They only 
participate in wholesome law-enforcement activities at all times.
A3. Two. One to do the job and one to botch it. Public relations is
automatically handled by a new AI program that endlessly constructs almost-
coherent sentences from keywords like `dead bodies', `airplane explosion',
`innocent children', `drug dealers', `terrorists', `criminals', `law-
abiding public,' `American businesses'.
A4. B.C. (Before cryptography), several. After, none. (See also 
`endangered bureacrats.')


Q. How many NSA agents does it take to spy on U.S. citizens?
A. Sorry, that's classified information.


Q. Why does D. Sternlight favor Clipper technology?

A1. It's the kind of idea he could have come up with himself.
A2. Doesn't like to be bothered by details. That's what the NSA is for.
A3. No unsound idea has ever emanated from the U.S. Government.
A4. Having been to many subversive foreign countries, he recognizes the 
necessity of spying on them.


Q. Why is D. Denning promoting Clipper?

A1. peer pressure (all her friends are doing it).
A2. Wanted to beat the rush.
A3. Looks good on her resume.
A4. Everyone needs a hobby.
A5. Coincidentally got an NSA employee after signing up for the
Adopt an Endangered Bureacrat program.


Q. Why is D. Denning's cryptography book so successful?

A1. It's cornered the lucrative NSA textbook market.
A2. The NSA bureacrats love to shred their reading material, and order new
copies each time they need to look something up (which is frequent).
A3. People marvel at the writing by an expert endorsed by the NSA.
A4. NSA afraid someone will read it so they buy all the copies.


Q. Why is the Clinton administration wholeheartedly promoting Clipper?

A1. The neato secret decoder rings handed out at the briefing won everyone
over immediately.
A2. Opportunity for another authoritative and stunning nose-tweaking at 
`the previous administration'.
A3. First installment of the fabulous new and comprehensive `Orwell Plan'.
A4. Anything to get those creepy NSA guys to go away.


Q. Why did the NSA come up with the Clipper chip?

A1. Job security.
A2. Entertainment.
A3. Scared silly of `economic espionage' monsters hiding in the closet.
A4. Got bored that day.
A5. Great joke on those Mycotronx bozos.


--

ld231782@longs.LANCE.ColoState.EDU
