Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!transfer.stratus.com!jjmhome!pig!die
From: die@pig.UUCP (Dave Emery)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper
Subject: Another clipper weakness ?
Summary: Suppose there is a way to read the key ?
Keywords: TEMPEST, backdoor.
Message-ID: <756@pig.UUCP>
Date: 30 May 93 21:40:35 GMT
Followup-To: sci.crypt
Organization: Opinion Mongers Incorperated...
Lines: 125
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:16781 alt.privacy.clipper:528


	One presumption that most net commentators seem to have made
about the Clipper chip is that a backdoor allowing covert national
security access would be implemented in the cryptographic algorithm
and/or key management protocols.  There is another possibility which
seems just as real to me - namely that NSA has deliberately implemented
some physical mechanism, perhaps a subtle one based on classified
TEMPEST technology, that would allow someone with direct access to the
Clipper chip in a secure phone, fax, modem or whatever to read the
permanent law enforcement key non destructively. 

	Such a capability would have a number of uses.  It would allow
traditional "black bag cryptanalysis" (eg theft of keys by obtaining
access to them convertly, usually by burglary or unauthorized entry)
with a particularly large payoff - all the traffic ever encrypted with a
particular chip - now or in the future, which is much better than what
most such raids now yield.  And it would enable the national security
apparatus (the CIA?) to mount a covert effort to gain access to as many
Clipper chips during assembly, test, and distribution of Clipper devices
as possible to build up a "black" database of keys completely outside of
the legal escrow system.  Considering that most subscriber terminal
equipment (telephones, faxes, modems) is currently assembled offshore in
places where the CIA operates with a pretty free hand, setting up such
would seem very possible without too many pesky legal questions. 

	A backdoor such as this also empowers small, extremely covert,
("black"), compartmentalized operations (such as the Watergate
"plumbers") to go after domestic targets without the potential for
disclosure and oversight that having to go through the key escrow legal
process would involve (even if this acquires a legal backdoor through
some secret "rubber stamp" court), and certainly without the issues
involved in getting NSA cryptanalytic resources allocated to decrypting
the traffic. 
	
	And if this capability ever became available to more traditional
law enforcement, it would allow warrentless broad gauged "fishing expeditions"
to occur after seizure of a Clipper device; a sinister possibility in
consideration of the increasing use of "vacuum cleaner" seizure tactics
in which all electronic equipment is hauled off.

	And unlike a general cryptologic security hole, which might
allow easy access to all traffic encrypted with Clipper devices and
would therefore necessarily be an extremely powerful and dangerous technology 
which would need to be guarded very carefully and used very sparingly
lest it be disclosed or fall into the wrong hands, such a capability would
be self limiting in that it would require physical access to the specific
devices used to encrypt traffic of interest.   This might well be used
as a justification for allowing more general use of the technology.

	Such an access mechanism might be relatively overt, but
apparent only to someone with detailed gate level access to the
chip design, or extremely subtle and indirect and detectable only
by very careful analysis at the mask level by someone armed with
considerable knowlage of TEMPEST technology as it applies to chips.
For example, loading a particular working key and plaintext with
certain of the external pins of the chip in non standard logic states
(or with non-standard voltages, clock waveforms, or signal timings 
applied to the chip) could activate such a feature.  And the key output
could be as subtle as a barely detectable amount of noise induced on
some one or more pins, or even just modulation of metastable behaviour
when the chip was fed critical timing that caused internal race conditions.

	No panel of academic mathematicians fed a high level discription
of the algorithm is ever likely to do the detailed gate by gate,
microcycle by microcycle, transistor by transistor, nanosecond by
nanosecond analysis of the operation of the silicon at a low level that
would allow such a backdoor to be discovered.  Further, it has been my
understanding that the select panel was only going to be given "classified
details of the algorithm"  and not complete access to all levels of the
chip design and all the supporting technology (such as simulation tools,
noise coupling analysis software, precise specifications of the semiconductor
processes used and so forth) that would give them a chance to find such
a low level backdoor, especially if it had been well hidden.

	As someone who has had some tangential involvement with ASIC
design, simulation, reverse engineering, and debug it has been my
experiance that spotting and understanding subtle interactions (race
conditions and the like) in chip logic is neither something that can be
done quickly or completely.  At best one could hope that a reasonably
large group of appropriately trained and experianced people given the
full chip database might be able to find something given considerable
time.  And since the NSA is known to be the world expert in TEMPEST and
related technologies, it is not at all clear that there aren't tricks
simply unknown to civilians outside the walls.  And unlike crytographic
algorithm design where it may be possible to actually prove certain
conjectures about an algorithm and its security, proving things about
complex physical systems is not readily possible. 

	At the very least, ensuring that the chip was really secure
against such an attack would involve making a great deal of information
about the chip available to a significant number of outside people over
a considerable period of time.  From the goverment's point of view, the
chance of this leaking out and allowing some group to build or program
Clipper chips without escrowed keys seems large enough so it is very
unlikely they will allow such srutiny, even discounting the possibility
that disclosure of some element of Clipper technology would either
compromise existing US classified crypto systems or enable strengthening
of those used by other governments.

	As a final comment, it occurs to me that there is yet another
attack that has to be possible.   Since Clipper chips can be programmed
(they are downloaded with their keys in the vault after all), what is
to prevent a bad guy from simply reprogramming the chip his target is
using to use a LEF key he knows ?   This would not give access to past
traffic and would be detectable, but for many targets the chances of
someone checking might be small enough to justify the risk.   This would
of course be especially true of trojan horse Clipper devices passed
to an unwitting target since he would have absolutely no way of
checking to see if his new device had keys that actually matched the
ones in escrow.  And needless to say the technology for doing this
is already in place and known to the government.

	As a postscript I must hasten to add that use of cryptographic
protection for electronic communications of ordinary citizens is
something that has been long long overdue.  Current communications systems
ranging from LANS to cellphones and even plain old POTS lines are much
too vulnerable to easy, simple, access with readily available equipment.
And the knowlage of how to do so is no longer confined to the spook 
and law enforcement community either.   But I remain convinced that
any cipher that depends on escrow keys remaining hidden within
a physical device (at least one implemented with any current technology
I am aware of) is dangerously insecure.

	David I. Emery, Senior Technical Consultant (and notorious fraud) 
	UUCP:  ...uunet!jjmhome!pig!die  Internet: die@world.std.com
