Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!emory!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!news.kei.com!news.oc.com!utacfd.uta.edu!rwsys!sneaky!gordon
From: gordon@sneaky.lonestar.org (Gordon Burditt)
Subject: Clipper post-encoding
Message-ID: <C7wJE8.AJD@sneaky.lonestar.org>
Organization: Gordon Burditt
Date: Mon, 31 May 1993 17:32:00 GMT
Lines: 52

Suppose I just got my supply of Clipper chips, and I'm getting ready
to use them.  Clipper chips generate a digital output, right?
Now, assuming I'm going to try to send the results over a phone line,
(and digital-to-the-home lines aren't available, are too expensive, or
don't cover enough of the market), it seems like I have a number of
choices that can be a real pain in the neck to law enforcement trying
to listen in, even if I'm not trying to stop them.

Assume for the minute that I'm not suspected of selling national
secrets.  There are a few dozen suspects at my company, suspected of
insider trading and stock manipulation.  It's likely that only one
or two are guilty.  The opponent is the local police and the SEC, with
some FBI help, not the hottest priority NSA code-cracking team, and
the opponent I'm really worried about, corporate snoops who are interested 
in what my company is doing so they can negotiate or trade stock to their
benefit and the detriment of my company.

I can't dump raw digital down a (analog) phone line.  Sync or async?  
What data rate?  What modulation?  v.32bis, PEP, or something else?  How 
about bit-order issues?  v.42?  Encapsulation in UUCP or SLIP packets?

Supposedly law enforcement considers things like v.32 "encryption" 
because it's difficult to recover the data.  How difficult is it to
recover a v.32/v.42/v.42bis modem conversation (not otherwise
encrypted) from a recording, especially considering the number of 
options negotiated between the modems?  (PEP negotiates which frequency
channels to use and how many bits to use on each at the beginning of
every conversation).  Assume (1) you can't do a "man-in-the-middle" 
attack with a pair of modems, nor can you get two taps so you can 
isolate what one end is sending, (2) your tap is close to, but not at, one 
end of the conversation and the noise you see is not quite the same as 
what that end sees, and (3) you're doing all-digital recordings so 
speed variations due to tape-recorder motors aren't a problem, (4) you 
don't know the modem type or option settings of the modem ahead of 
time, but they rarely change, and (5) the value of the information 
lasts only a few weeks or so before most of it will be public anyway.

If I'm really trying to hide my transmission from law enforcement, 
I'll take the digital output of the Clipper chip, turn it into an 
image of a printed core dump, and fax it.  Or take the digital output, 
uuencode it, and send it in Morse Code.  Even using straight async 
digital at 134.5 baud might prove inconvenient for law enforcement 
to decipher. 

If the key escrow system works the way it has been described, without
a "back door", it would seem that the guy who has this collection of 
a few thousand Clipper chips, and uses one at random for low-security 
conversations and uses a new one and then destroys it for high-security 
conversations would be a real pain to tap.

					Gordon L. Burditt
					sneaky.lonestar.org!gordon
