Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!torn!nott!cunews!revcan!balsam!uuisis!tanda!marc
From: marc@tanda.isis.org (Marc Thibault)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Let's split sci.crypt...
Message-ID: <X4yV6B4w165w@tanda.isis.org>
Date: Mon, 28 Jun 93 23:19:56 EDT
References: <C9B8M1.DHo@acsu.buffalo.edu>
Organization: Tanda and Associates
Lines: 60

boyd@acsu.buffalo.edu (Daniel F Boyd) writes:

> Cryptography has nothing to do with understanding politics, which is
> what 'political science' means.  You are confusing the application of
> the science with the science itself.

        That's like saying that automotive design has nothing to do
        with understanding personal transport. A cryptographer
        ignorant of politics is ignorant of his or her own raison
        d'etre, producing at best elegant but useless results. Clipper
        is a wondeful example of how politics and cryptography are
        inextricably entwined. Whether or not the Clipper is judged to
        be a good design is almost completely decided by the political
        position of the judge, and the political ends it is designed
        to meet. How could you possibly discuss either the
        cryptography or the politics of Clipper without reference to
        them both?

        Have you noticed that the people who have a political problem
        with Clipper are the ones who are saying that more needs to be
        disclosed about the algorithm and implementation before they
        will be satisfied that it is cryptographically strong, while
        those who are happy with the politics are also prone to defend
        the cryptography? Keep in mind that they are both working from
        the same data.

        As to "political science"; the current use of the term in
        universities is a misappropriation of the word "science". This
        mild mixture of taxonomy, zoology and pop psychology would be
        better named "political studies", in the manner of other
        general knowledge courses.

> This posting and the thread it responds to are the perfect argument
> for moderation and a group split.

        Maybe. But it would be a PITA to have to be continually
        cross-referencing technical discussions in one group to
        discussions of their implications in another. Given the
        apparently very small number of participants in this group
        (seems to be less than 150 regular contributors, 40 of whom
        are named Sternlight), and the low volume of messages, is it
        really necessary? How many of us would commune in one group
        and not the other?
        
        Cheers,
                Marc

---
 Marc Thibault                             | marc@tanda.isis.org
 Automation Architect                      | CIS:71441,2226
 R.R.1, Oxford Mills, Ontario, Canada      | NC FreeNet: aa185

-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
mQBNAiqxYTkAAAECALfeHYp0yC80s1ScFvJSpj5eSCAO+hihtneFrrn+vuEcSavh
AAUwpIUGyV2N8n+lFTPnnLc42Ms+c8PJUPYKVI8ABRG0I01hcmMgVGhpYmF1bHQg
PG1hcmNAdGFuZGEuaXNpcy5vcmc+
=HLnv
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----


