Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!sdd.hp.com!math.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!das-news.harvard.edu!husc-news.harvard.edu!birkhoff!kubo
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Fermat implication in crypto?
Message-ID: <1993Jul1.161240.25400@husc14.harvard.edu>
From: kubo@birkhoff.harvard.edu (Tal Kubo)
Date: 1 Jul 93 16:12:39 EDT
References: <gradyC96nuI.Hxt@netcom.com>
Organization: Dept. of Math, Harvard Univ.
Nntp-Posting-Host: birkhoff.harvard.edu
Lines: 32


What Wiles proved is a large piece of the Shimura-Taniyama-Weil
conjecture about elliptic curves over the rationals.  That, not
Fermat, might have implications for crypto.

First, if an elliptic curve is modular (which is exactly what is now proved
for a large class of such curves), then it enjoys some properties which are
not known for elliptic curves in general.  It is not clear whether Wiles'
proof helps one to find the modular parametrization of a given curve.

Second, STW is a major part of the Langlands conjectures relating number
theory and representation theory (I think that for GL(2) it gives
even more precise information than is contained in the Langlands
conjectures). To that extent it may help to solve some crypto-related
problems in number theory, or at least reduce them to more tractable
problems in representation theory.

As an analogy, elliptic curves are used in some cryptosystems.  Now,
computing the number of generators of the group of rational points on
elliptic curves over Q is (AFAIK) an unsolved problem. But, if the
Birch-Swinnerton-Dyer conjecture -- a conjecture similar to STW in that it
relates number-theoretic and complex-analytic properties of elliptic curves
-- is true, then there is a way to compute the rank in terms of analytic
functions attached to the curve.

The above should be taken with a grain of salt, because the elliptic curves
used in cryptography are usually defined over a finite field whereas STW
pertains to curves over the rational numbers.  But there is a substantial
parallelism between the two theories, and Wiles' proof may have implications
in the characteristic p  situation as well.


