Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!news-feed-2.peachnet.edu!umn.edu!lynx.unm.edu!hydra.unm.edu!caadams
From: caadams@hydra.unm.edu (Clifford A Adams)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Wanted: any *free* signature/authentication methods
Date: 2 Jul 1993 01:44:06 GMT
Organization: University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Lines: 51
Message-ID: <2103t6INN50i@lynx.unm.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: hydra.unm.edu
Summary: Usenet rating application--weak security is OK.
Keywords: signature, authentication, security, usenet, restrictions

[I have read sci.crypt for about 6 months, and read the FAQs.  I'm
not even an amateur cryptographer, but I think I appreciate some of the
possibilities.]

	I am working on rating/moderation schemes for Usenet
newsgroups using an "index" approach.  In this system people will be
able to use a newsreading program to read recommended articles or junk
articles that are unlikely to be interesting.  Anybody will be able to
post index files containing recommendations, but most people will
probably follow the recommendations of a few good raters.  (One use
for this system might be a non-politics sci.crypt index.)

	The problem is that the ratings will be distributed over
USENET, which has minimal security.  Forged rating messages could cause
significant harm to the reputation of a rater and waste the time of
thousands of readers.

	I would like to use a signature (authentication?) method in
rating messages to deter forgers.  Unfortunately, to my knowledge the
known strong systems are US-patented and/or non-exportable.  I'm
looking for weaker systems as a temporary measure until/unless the
legal problems for strong cryptography are cleared up.

	By "weak", I mean that a system should be acceptable if any of
the following conditions were met:

	* The system requires significant cryptographic knowledge to
crack a signature, and that knowledge is not easily communicated in a
"cookbook" way or computer program.

	* The system requires about a week of computer time to crack
by brute force, given typically available systems.

	* Some combination of the above two conditions which deters
almost all attackers.

	I'm not interested in stopping intelligence agencies or any
other big attackers.  Any such system will still have disclaimers that
the security can be broken.  I am aware that some people feel that an
explicitly insecure system is better than a questionably secure one.

	Does anyone have any pointers to systems which fit my needs?
I have considered looking into "knapsack" systems--even though they
are broken would they be reasonable to use?

					--Cliff
-- 
Clifford A. Adams  caadams@triton.unm.edu | USENET Interface Project:
457 Ash St. NE     Albuquerque, NM  87106 | Tools for advanced newsreading
Scan/Scoring trn (strn) now in alpha testing: a trn 3.0-based reader with
flexible newsgroup menus and fast article scoring with prioritized display.
