Newsgroups: comp.protocols.kerberos,sci.crypt,comp.security.misc,alt.security.ripem,comp.infosystems.www
Path: msuinfo!agate!spool.mu.edu!uwm.edu!linac!att!att-out!cbnewsh!wcs
From: wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (Bill Stewart +1-908-949-0705)
Subject: Re: Security services for HTTP:  Kerberos vs. PEM
Organization: AT&T
Date: Mon, 5 Jul 1993 06:49:56 GMT
Message-ID: <C9oIz8.H5C@cbnewsh.cb.att.com>
In-Reply-To: hallam@dxal18.cern.ch's message of Wed, 30 Jun 1993 14:50:23 GMT
References: <503.741393607@moose.cs.indiana.edu> <SES.93Jun29203706@tipper.oit.unc.edu>
	<1993Jun30.020850.24174@uvm.edu>
	<1993Jun30.090504.27836@dxcern.cern.ch> <20s5bn$ore@pad-thai.aktis.com>
	<1993Jun30.145023.5784@dxcern.cern.ch>
Sender: wcs@cbnewsh.cb.att.com (william.clare.stewart)
Lines: 75
Xref: msuinfo comp.protocols.kerberos:2190 sci.crypt:17782 comp.security.misc:4506 alt.security.ripem:262 comp.infosystems.www:640

In article <1993Jun30.145023.5784@dxcern.cern.ch> hallam@dxal18.cern.ch
(HALLAM-BAKER Phillip) writes:
   Unfortunately I don't see any real opportunity for a workable compromise. 
   The US laws in this area are simply too restrictive (ie re import/export). 
....
   Whatever system is adopted it will be illegal to export the code from Europe
   to the US or vice versa under the US self imposed COCOM restriction. 
   So effort will have to be diverted into separate developments in any case.

Things are better, and worse, that you're portraying them.
- It's legal to export descriptions of algorithms just about anywhere.
- It's legal to import crypto software into the US.
- It may or may not be legal to export crypto software from outher countries.
- It's partly legal to export crypto software from the US;
	licenses are granted on a case-by-case basis.
	Authentication-only software like Unix password encryption
	is much easier to get approval for than full encryption/decryption.
- It's currently legal to *use* crypto in the US, though some techniques
	are covered by RSA's patents here; RSA are reasonable folks and
	have made RSAREF available free for restricted uses and
	will sell you fancier products for money.
- It may not *remain* legal to use crypto in the US without restrictions,
	because a bunch of stupid control freaks in the government
	want to require cats to go back into bags, but the same could
	be said of most governments.
- It's legal to import and export encrypted messages to/from the US.
- It may or may not be legal to use crypto in other countries;
	there may also be limits on importing or exporting encrypted messages.
	Net.rumour says that France is picky about this sort of thing.
- It's legal to use RSA outside the US; copyright laws in Europe presumably
	prevent use of the RSAREF software unless RSA gives permission,
	but it's legal to write an RSAREF-compatible package if anyone
	wants to.
- If RSAREF gives you all the pieces you need, and it probably does,
	you could write a system using RSAREF or your RSAREF-clone,
	and we could use it here in the US with RSAREF.  
	We couldn't re-export the crypto-related pieces, but we could
	still work on the parts built around the RSAREF section.


   Certainly I see no point in using a form of encryption deliberately bongoed
   so that it can be cracked (UNIX password scheme.. DES... etc).

Nonsense.  There's no good evidence that DES was designed to be crackable,
and there's some evidence that it was designed to be non-crackable, 
within the limitations of 56-bit keys, though there could still be a
hidden trapdoor somewhere, and 56 bits isn't as long as it used to be.

Unix password encryption was definitely designed to be NON-crackable,
and to discourage brute-force searches of all "trivial" keys, though 
hardware and software improvements have made that "trivial" a much
larger category than it was then :-).  It's also not clear that
breaking DES would break Unix passwords - not only do the S-box modifications
affect that, but breaking DES might only make it easy to recover the
constant plaintext value from cyphertext, without giving you the key.
Yes, if you wanted to redesign Unix passwords today, there are a
number of improvements that ought to be made, especially longer salts
and longer passwords, but it's still pretty good; much more serious
problems with it include use across networks, wiretapping, etc.

In a previous post, Philip said that CERN had diplomatic immunity
because it was an international research organization.
I find this assertion surprising - diplomatic immunity is for *diplomats*;
why should the USA or Albania or Zaire give it any more slack than, say,
Nestle' or the IEEE?  Do you get diplomatic passports for working there?
I assume copyright laws still apply to CERN and its employees,
and international patent agreements made by its owners as well
(though I assume there aren't any that would apply to RSA involved.)
Do local laws apply to CERN's facilities, or does it count as "foreign"?

-- 

				Pray for peace;      Bill
#Bill Stewart 908-949-0705 wcs@anchor.ho.att.com AT&T Bell Labs 4M312 Holmdel NJ
# Please send email to my anchor account instead of this news server
