Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!eddie.mit.edu!news.kei.com!ub!acsu.buffalo.edu!boyd
From: boyd@acsu.buffalo.edu (Daniel F Boyd)
Subject: Re: Assumptions about NSA
Message-ID: <C9pIxt.AzC@acsu.buffalo.edu>
Sender: nntp@acsu.buffalo.edu
Nntp-Posting-Host: autarch-14.acsu.buffalo.edu
Reply-To: boyd@acsu.buffalo.edu (Daniel F Boyd)
Organization: UB
References: <6652.204.uupcb@ssr.com>
Date: Mon, 5 Jul 1993 19:46:40 GMT
Lines: 41

In article <6652.204.uupcb@ssr.com> dick.zeitlin%acc1bbs@ssr.com 
(Dick Zeitlin) writes:
> At the end of your tirade you might consider that OTPs are still quite
> useful for many purposes.  If I choose to use a OTP to communicate with
> each of my corporate sites I can visit them once a year with sufficient
> material to handle the entire year's communication, both text and
> speech.

This is the only purpose for which OTPs are useful: when the
communication system is

	(a) centrally administered
	(b) forms a directed net

This is nice.  But it's by NO means the main purpose to which
cryptography is put, and it's also very well understood so it's not
really a fertle area for discussion.

Put another way: I like OTPs just fine for communicating with the
embassies, the outlying corporate sites, diplomatic communication, or
transmitting the go/no-go orders to the missile silos; it works fine
if there is someone enforcing cryptographic discipline.  

The thing is,
who cares?  I don't have any missile silos, do you?  I don't have any
corporate sites, do you?  

Maybe I would like to look up someone's number in the phone book and
get their public key, type it into my phone and talk to them.  Perhaps
I would like to spend mutually-anonymous untraceable digital cash with
my ATM card at the supermarket.  Certainly I would like to keep the
one-way-hashed versions of my users' passwords in a world-readable
file.  I would like to do all kinds of things that OTPs are USELESS
for, and seeing them reinvented weekly on this newsgroup is becoming
tiresome.


Daniel F. Boyd -- boyd@cs.buffalo.edu

It's not a system called 'X Windows', it's a window system named 'X',
after the owl on "Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood".
