Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!olivea!hal.com!darkstar.UCSC.EDU!darrell
From: darrell@cse.ucsc.edu (Darrell Long)
Newsgroups: alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Subject: Bidzos on NIST/DSS (and LPF's charges)
Date: 6 Jul 1993 19:26:07 GMT
Organization: University of California, Santa Cruz (CE/CIS Boards)
Lines: 52
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <21cjkfINNgvg@darkstar.UCSC.EDU>
NNTP-Posting-Host: cypress.ucsc.edu
Xref: msuinfo alt.privacy.clipper:1043 sci.crypt:17799

Date: Tue, 6 Jul 93 12:04:37 PDT
From: jim@RSA.COM (Jim Bidzos)
Subject:  RSA sells out?

Feel free to share with anyone.

On September 20, 1991 I wrote a letter to congress about DSS.  It
said, among other things, that DSS had a number of problems,
including, but not limited to, the following:

1. DSS is too weak. (Rivest demonstrated this nicely.)
2. DSS could force users to employ a trapped system-wide p.
   (Demonstrated clearly by Lenstra and Haber.)
3. DSS infringed patents.
4. DSS could be a prelude to a breakable privacy standard.
5. DSS is not compatible with international standards.
6. DSS is slow and cumbersone. (Burt Kaliski demonstrated
   this nicely in a paper.)

What's happened?

1. NIST increased the max keysize to 1024 bits from 512.  
2. DSS now includes information on how to avoid trapped primes.
3. This has now been resolved.  
4. Told you so.  
5. Still true.  
6. Still true.

The NIST/PKP deal 

This deal is basically as follows:

The govt is giving PKP its DSA patent.

PKP is giving the government royalty-free use of the entire package of
patents listed in the announcement. Further, PKP is stating that
licenses (to all the patents listed, *and* the DSA patent) will be
available at published terms and conditions for private sector use.

These licenses are available for the practice of standards that NIST
*may* develop. DSA is one. A key management standard is another. I
don't know where anyone got the idea that Clipper or Capstone are
"mandated" by this deal.

Companies such as ATT, Motorola, Northern Telecom, and others are
licensed to use public key such as RSA or Exponential Key Exchange for
key management.  Several are using those licensed techniques with DES
today.  They could replace DES with Clipper and not even have to talk
to us.  Or they are free to keep using DES or whatever they want.

Mandating Clipper/Capstone? I challenge LPF to prove that one.

