Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper,alt.security.pgp
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!uchinews!att-out!cbnewsh!wcs
From: wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (Bill Stewart +1-908-949-0705)
Subject: Re: Minimal-Compromise Disclosures
Organization: AT&T
Date: Tue, 6 Jul 1993 21:12:59 GMT
Message-ID: <C9rHLv.MC4@cbnewsh.cb.att.com>
In-Reply-To: strnlght@netcom.com's message of Wed, 30 Jun 1993 17:12:37 GMT
References: <20rtrd$q6b@access.digex.net> <20sd67INNggt@twain.ucs.umass.edu>
	<20sf6b$sk2@access.digex.net> <strnlghtC9G2H2.56z@netcom.com>
Sender: wcs@cbnewsh.cb.att.com (william.clare.stewart)
Lines: 71
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:17803 alt.privacy.clipper:1046 alt.security.pgp:3521

In article <strnlghtC9G2H2.56z@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:
   >while permitting key escrow which has the effect of a subpoena
   >served upon all users without any presentation of evidence whatsoever.

   I don't think this is at all correct. Depending on the escrow agencies, they
   become YOUR agents, just as your bank is. Since you have prior knowledge
   that they are YOUR agents for holding keys (assuming you accept the
   voluntary Clipper deal), law enforcement still needs to serve specific
   subpoenas on your agents to get the keys.

Nonsense.  Nobody is *my* agent unless they're doing something for me,
with my authorization.  Key Escrow Agents may be holding the keys to my chips,
but that's doing something against me, without my authorization.
Yes, I know they're doing it, just as I know General Motors probably has the
information to make a new key for my car given my VIN,
but that doesn't make them my agent any more than GM would be acting as my agent
if they made a key for the Federal Government Nice Car Forfeiture Agency, 
er, um, Justice Department.

   It would not be too far removed to suggest that an analogy with banks isn't
   inappropriate.  To get a bank account, you have to agree to the Federal
   Reserve regulations as they affect that account, including any
   record-keeping requirements with respect to your transactions, just as to
   get Clipper you have to agree to the escrow regulations.  

It's not quite accurate, but it's a good start for argument :-)
No, I don't have to agree to Federal Reserve regulations affecting the account.
U.S. banks are forbidden to operate without agreeing to the regulations,
but that's them agreeing, that's not me.  I don't agree.
They also aren't allowed to offer interest-bearing accounts without
getting customer's SSN, but when I provide that information,
I'm not granting them authority to use it as my agent; I'm giving them
the authority to lend my money to other people (carefully :-).

   The bank is your agent, and you haven't been subpoenaed without
   evidence just because the bank has your financial data.   
   For law enforcement to get it takes a specific subpoena.

This statement is incorrect - not only, as you point out in the
following paragraph, will the bank notify the government any time I
make a large transaction (often much smaller than $10K, BTW),
but they'll also give them a report at the end of the year on how much
interest they paid me, and anything else the government wants,
all without subpoenas.  

On the other hand, in my (hypothetical) Numbered Swiss Bank Account, 
I don't have to provide them with tax information,
they don't report it to the U.S. government, and *they* have no
obligation to report large transactions to the US government, 
though any US banks I send them money through do so.
They can be subpoenaed by Swiss courts if I'm accused of doing
something Switzerland considers criminal, but otherwise they are
forbidden to give out the information (the original "crime" that
led to their banking privacy laws was "being Jewish and trying to get
your money out of Nazi Germany", but the Swiss don't consider things
like tax evasion and currency export to be crimes either;
on the other hand they take crimes like bank robbery quite seriously :-),
which has surprised a few bank robbers who've tried to stash money there.)

*Those* bankers are (hypothetically) acting as my agents to take care
of my money, just as U.S. bankers are.  (Switzerland does also have income tax
withholding on bank accounts, and if foreigners want to get the money
back they have to show the Swiss government that they've paid income
tax on it in a cooperating country like the US, but when the bank
collects that money, they're not acting as my agent, they're obeying
their government without my permission.)
-- 

				Pray for peace;      Bill
#Bill Stewart 908-949-0705 wcs@anchor.ho.att.com AT&T Bell Labs 4M312 Holmdel NJ
# Please send email to my anchor account instead of this news server
