Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!newsserver.jvnc.net!rutgers!att-out!cbnewsh!wcs
From: wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (Bill Stewart +1-908-949-0705)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Let's split sci.crypt...
Message-ID: <C9rEBL.KnH@cbnewsh.cb.att.com>
Date: 6 Jul 93 20:02:07 GMT
References: <20r0sj$oe0@msuinfo.cl.msu.edu> <20r2s7$b2q@vanbc.wimsey.com>
	<1993Jun30.122610.24703@cs.aukuni.ac.nz>
	<strnlghtC9G1uv.3zC@netcom.com>
Sender: wcs@cbnewsh.cb.att.com (william.clare.stewart)
Organization: AT&T
Lines: 87
In-Reply-To: strnlght@netcom.com's message of Wed, 30 Jun 1993 16:59:19 GMT

In article <strnlghtC9G1uv.3zC@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:
   >I was going to suggest that as well, possibly with a contact address on the
   >penet.fi anon server to solve the sticky problem of US people wanting to
   >post code for the rest of the world to see.

   "sticky"? You mean for violating U.S. law?

U.S. Law isn't at all well-defined in this area - what's an export?
Is making something available for anonymous FTP an export?
Emailing something overseas seems pretty much like export, but not FTP.
And who's the actor in these transactions?  The person making the file
available? The person requesting it?  The sysadmin or owner of the FTP site?
A conspiracy of all of the above?  What if the requestor isn't located
in the US?  Does the US have jurisdiction at all?  Do the requestor's
local government's laws apply, and how do they affect the process?

Until there are actual court cases, or until the CONgress writes laws
that explicitly nail this stuff down, it remains a sticky problem.
One way to deal with the stickiness is to play it conservative,
like RSA does; another is to push the limits either quietly or noisily.

There's also the problem that U.S. Law violates U.S. Law.
While the Constitution assigns CONgress the power to "regulate"
interstate commerce, it unfortunately doesn't define those terms,
but it nowhere gives the military the power to censor civilians,
and the Bill of Rights bans on making laws abridging the freedom of
speech or the press clearly supersede it.  There probably have been
court decisions backing the military's power in these areas, but there
have also been decisions saying that unconstitutional laws aren't valid.

On the other hand, the issue of whether "speech or the press"
includes software has probably not been thoroughly established, and
Supreme Courts have made some appalling decisions over the years about
whether "abridging the freedom of speech or of the press" means you
can say things the Government doesn't like (viz. Schenk), and the
Constitution doesn't define some obvious issues like how "enemies" are
assigned, which is kind of necessary for laws against trading with the
enemy or giving them aid and comfort.  However, with the possible
exceptions of Vietnam, North Korea, and Iraq, I'm not aware of anybody
Congress has declared (or quasi-declared) war on with whom it hasn't
later ended the war in some manner or other.  In particular,
I don't think we've ever been at war with Finland......

And then there's the question of what "arms" are, which we're allowed
to keep and bear, and if encryption *is* included in that,
exchanging crypto capability with other peaceful individuals 
(as opposed to foreign governments) is bearing arms, and strengthening
our abilities to function as a militia if we need to do so.
(But that's probably a *.*.guns topic, not a sci.crypt issue;
let's at least not cross-post :-)

If that's still not sticky enough for you, let's get down to the
question of who works for whom here.  The government is ostensibly a
bunch of guys we've hired to protect our lives, liberty, and pursuit
of happiness, and if they're telling us that we're forbidden to
exercise our liberty or pursuit of happiness in activities that aren't
directly harming others, they'd better make a pretty good case for it.
- In some areas (storing Constitutionally-protected nuclear arms in my basement, 
paying tolls to travel on public right-of-way in exchange for getting
it paved, etc.), they make a good case, so I agree to cooperate.
- In some areas (paying taxes for "services" I don't want, using
politically incorrect drugs in front of politicians), they don't make a
good case, but they have thugs with guns who'll attack me if I disobey,
so I generally comply to avoid being attacked, unless there's a very
strong moral principle involved that compels disobedience
(resisting the military draft, etc.)
- In some areas they don't make a good case, but what they want me to do
is what I'd choose to do anyway (not using heroin or running a brothel
or painting my house bright orange), so I do what I'd chose unless I'm
annoyed enough to make a point.
- But in some areas, the government has made bad laws, forbidding me
to do morally good or neutral things that I want to do, or requiring me
to do morally bad things, but either the penalty is low or the
probability of being caught is low or the moral issues sufficiently important
that it's worth disobeying my employees.  Sometimes it's worth doing
so without drawing their attention (inhaling at Grateful Dead concerts,
failing to turn in my neighbors for thoughtcrimes, using anonymous remailers 
to help develop privacy-protection software), and sometimes it's worth
doing so in ways that challenge them directly (Stuart Reges writing to
the Drug Czar, Rosa Parks sitting at the front of the bus, etc.)
Deciding what to do in these situations can be quite sticky.

-- 

				Pray for peace;      Bill
#Bill Stewart 908-949-0705 wcs@anchor.ho.att.com AT&T Bell Labs 4M312 Holmdel NJ
# Please send email to my anchor account instead of this news server
