Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!sdd.hp.com!portal!cup.portal.com!Christopher_C_Lapp
From: Christopher_C_Lapp@cup.portal.com
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: CIA's Structural Errors
Message-ID: <84890@cup.portal.com>
Date: Wed,  7 Jul 93 15:07:32 PDT
Organization: The Portal System (TM)
Distribution: usa
Lines: 39

There are two tendencies I would like to eliminate in 
American  infocombat:

1) The  If it worked once, lets repeat the success 
everywhere  tendency.  This is the equivalent of  easy 
money  in Las Vegas.  The key is not repeating the 
external events that percipitated a favorable result (e.g. 
the cold fusion spoof worked so now a 200 page 
mathematical proof of Fermat s Last Theorem will also 
work) but the underlying empathy with the 
organization.  My advice is not to pound the same group 
many times (E.G. physicists and mathematicians 
working on an A-bomb in N. Korea) but to nip away at 
various parts of the entire A-Bomb research 
organization from the kitchen staff to the budget 
comptroller. If you  value jammed  the physicists, now 
empathize with a group not on the same rumor mill as 
the physicists so that the results will be uncontaminated.

2) The  run the new theory into the ground, then 
abandon it  approach.  This happens when a 
bureaucratic group becomes the darlings of the CIA, 
gets a big budget, and is pressured to produce instant 
and consistent success.  Value Based Normative 
Empathetic Warfare will work so long as the strategists 
of the CIA carefully empathize with their targets, and 
based on that empathy, develop a carefully thought out, 
>original< custom-tailored antibody for the target.  If 
this approach does not happen, then someday, a big, 
sloppy antibody will backfire, and everybody will say 
 Remember what happened when we used XYZ and five 
people died.   

What I have read in the papers indicates to me that I 
have not been successful in introducing a paradigm shift 
in the upper elite of the CIA.  Maybe that s impossible, 
but please don t blow your chance to finally control bad 
events in the world.  I ve done my best to keep my 
mouth shut and keep rooting for you.  Good Luck.
