Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!uunet!nctuccca.edu.tw!news!ccds3.ntu.edu.tw!cctwin!jeremy
From: jeremy@cctwin.ee.ntu.edu.tw (Jeremy Anderson)
Subject: Re: Is the law an ASS?
Message-ID: <1993Jul11.025326.13846@ccds3.ntu.edu.tw>
Sender: usenet@ccds3.ntu.edu.tw (USENET PROXY ACCOUNT)
Nntp-Posting-Host: cctwin.ee.ntu.edu.tw
Organization: NTUTaiwan
References: <2346@indep1.UUCP>
Date: Sun, 11 Jul 1993 02:53:26 GMT
Lines: 37

(This has gotta be the world's slowest thread.  No problem.)
clifto@indep1.UUCP (Cliff Sharp) writes:

:    If no one has been publicly prosecuted, how much will it be worth for them
: to spend to make an example of you?  Right now, I think that's the overriding
: factor.

You seem to have missed the basic point of the message.  I feel that
the ITAR statutes as applied to crypto and the invocations of the
National Security Act which are sometimes used are legally invalid.
These statues have obvious problems with first ammendment rights to
free speech as well as confiscation of property without due process of
law.  (I will grudingly concede that since a piece of crypto hardware
can not be considered published information, that MAYBE ITAR could be
applied to it)  If a case involving them reached a federal court, I'd
expect any sane and reasonable judge to overturn the laws completely,
or at least sharply curtail their use.  If this were to happen, the
NSA would lose a favorite tool to harass and bully wayward
cryptographers.  Ergo, I don't think they would actually take it into
court and prosecute.

So go ahead, violate the crypto laws at will!  Some guy in Taiwan (and
a few of his lawyer friends) say it's pretty safe to do so.  If I'm
wrong, you get 10 years to chill in Club Fed.  I'll send you some
take-out Chinese food if it happens.

(while intended to put some humor value into a pretty dry article,
this also is intended to remind you of how B.S. like this can stay on
the books for so long.)
--
Jeremy Anderson                                     jeremy@cctwin.ee.ntu.edu.tw
post: Hsinhai Road, Section 2, lane 131, Alley 3    tel: 886-2-735-0537
      Building 3, Second Floor			    home: never
      Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C

PGP 2.2 key available on request
Don't know what PGP is?  Ask me!
