Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!darwin.sura.net!seas.gwu.edu!hoffman
From: hoffman@seas.gwu.edu (Lance J. Hoffman)
Subject: Request for information on crypto products
Message-ID: <1993Jul14.012617.22327@seas.gwu.edu>
Sender: news@seas.gwu.edu
Organization: George Washington University
Distribution: sci.crypt, alt.privacy.clipper
Date: Wed, 14 Jul 1993 01:26:17 GMT
Lines: 67

 
(posted for Ilene Rosenthal of the SPA...)
 
     The Software Publishers Association is currently investigating
the marketplace for domestic and foreign cryptographic products. 
We have already identified 143 non-U.S. cryptographic products, and
our work is still very much incomplete.  I expect a significant
number of foreign products exist which we are unaware of as yet.
 
     With the help of Professor Lance Hoffman of The George
Washington University, we are building a database on foreign and
domestic encryption products.  We are trying to accumulate, for
each product, the following information:
 
     product name, version number
     manufacturer name, address, phone, fax, email
     contact name, affiliation, position, locator information
     seller name, locator information (foreign or US vendor?)
          vendors in other countries? (which? locator information?)
     what product encrypts, algorithm and key length for bulk data
          and for key management
     hardware requirements, importable to US?, purchasable
     elsewhere (retail store, phone, mail order, purchase order,
          credit card?)
     import restrictions if any
     license available?
     quantity one price
     peripheral or internal hardware
     installed base
     date first installed
     this information current as of (date)
 
     Professor Hoffman and I would very much appreciate it if you
could provide us information on foreign and domestic cryptographic
products you
know about.  Please send all *technical* material to him at this
address:
 
     Prof. Lance J. Hoffman
     Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
     The George Washington University
     Washington, DC 20052
     (202) 994-4955
     Fax: (202) 994-0227
     Email: hoffman@seas.gwu.edu
 
If you can let him know the best times to telephone you, that would
be very helpful as well.
 
     If you are interested in more information on the SPA or wish a
copy of our
recent statement to the Computer System Security and Privacy Advisory
Board about
cryptography, please contact Ilene Rosenthal (extension 318) or
Douglas Miller
(extension 342).
 
     Thanks in advance for your help.
 
Ilene G. Rosenthal
General Counsel

-- 
Professor Lance J. Hoffman
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
The George Washington University    (202) 994-4955    Fax: (202) 994-0227
Washington, D. C. 20052             hoffman@seas.gwu.edu
