Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!darwin.sura.net!sgiblab!sti!sti!not-for-mail
From: alaric@smurf.sti.com (Phil Stracchino)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: A few questions about the POSIX.2 32-bit CRC algorithm
Date: 14 Jul 1993 14:53:53 -0700
Organization: Software Transformation, Inc.
Lines: 38
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <221v9h$2iu@smurf.sti.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: smurf.sti.com


I was wondering whether anyone knows the answers to a few questions about
the reliability of the POSIX.2 32-bit CRC algorithm.  They may be pretty
elementary to some of the readers of this group, but I will freely admit that
I don't know the answers, and I'm not ashamed to ask.

What I'm trying to do here is to derive an estimate of the likelihood of false
positives, when a 32-bit CRC is used as an efficient way of validating test
data samples against previous results without having to save the entire volume
of previous data.

It is immediately obvious that, since a 32-bit CRC has 2^32 possible values,
then in any set of (2^32)+1 dissimilar data samples, there will be at least
one pair of dissimilar samples which have the same 32-bit CRC.  What I need
to know is the answers to these two questions:

1.	Is there a minimum data size, below which it is not possible for two
	dissimilar blocks of data to have the same 32-bit CRC under the POSIX.2
	algorithm?

2.	Given a block of data with a specified 32-bit CRC, approximately what
	is the probability of a random change in the data (either patterned or
	patternless) yielding the same 32-bit CRC?


Note - When I refer to patterned or patternless changes, I mean to apply the
following distinction:  A patterned change is one that can be produced by, for
instance, applying a specific change to every Nth byte or to every byte of a
certain initial value, whereas a patternless change is one in which random bits
in the data are arbitrarily toggled (effectively, overlaying the data with
random noise).


-- 
-----<phils@sti.com>---<alaric@sti.com>---------------------------------
 Phil V. Stracchino  | "...And just pray that there's intelligent life
 Alaric Tekiahyn     |        somewhere out in space,
 The Renaissance Man |   'Cause there's bugger-all down here on Earth."
