Path: msuinfo!agate!ames!sgi!cdp!dsobel
From: David L. Sobel <dsobel@igc.apc.org>
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Date: 15 Jul 93 11:50 PDT
Subject: CPSR Statement on Crypto Secrecy
Message-ID: <1465900016@igc.apc.org>
Sender: Notesfile to Usenet Gateway <notes@igc.apc.org>
Lines: 74


       Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility (CPSR) has 
called for a complete overhaul in the federal government's 
information classification system, including the removal of 
cryptography from the categories of information automatically 
deemed to be secret.  In a letter to a special Presidential task 
force examining the classification system, CPSR said that the 
current system -- embodied in an Executive Order issued by 
President Reagan in 1982 -- "has limited informed public debate on 
technological issues and has restricted scientific innovation and 
technological development."

       The CPSR statement, which was submitted in response to a 
task force request for public comments, strongly criticizes a 
provision in the Reagan secrecy directive that presumptively 
classifies any information that "concerns cryptology."  CPSR notes 
that "while cryptography -- the science of making and breaking 
secret security codes -- was once the sole province of the 
military and the intelligence agencies, the technology today plays 
an essential role in assuring the security and privacy of a wide 
range of communications affecting finance, education, research and 
personal correspondence."  With the end of the Cold War and the 
growth of widely available computer network services, the outdated 
view of cryptography reflected in the Reagan order must change, 
according to the statement.

       CPSR's call for revision of the classification system is 
based upon the organization's experience in attempting to obtain 
government information relating to cryptography and computer 
security issues.  CPSR is currently litigating Freedom of 
Information Act lawsuits against the National Security Agency 
(NSA) seeking the disclosure of technical data concerning the 
digital signature standard (DSS) and the administration's recent 
"Clipper Chip" proposal.  NSA has relied on the Reagan Executive 
Order as authority for withholding the information from the 
public.

       In its submission to the classification task force, CPSR 
also called for the following changes to the current secrecy 
directive:

     *  A return to the "balancing test," whereby the public 
     interest in the disclosure of information is weighed 
     against the claimed harm that might result from such 
     disclosure;

     *  A prohibition against the reclassification of 
     information that has been previously released;

     *  The requirement that the economic cost of classifying 
     scientific and technical be considered before such 
     information may be classified;

     *  The automatic declassification of information after 
     20 years, unless the head of the original classifying 
     agency, in the exercise of his or her non-delegable 
     authority, determines in writing that the material 
     requires continued classification for a specified 
     period of time; and

     *  The establishment of an independent oversight 
     commission to monitor the operation of the security 
     classification system.

       The task force is scheduled to submit a draft revision of 
the Executive Order to President Clinton on November 30.

       The full text of the CPSR statement can be obtained via 
ftp, wais and gopher from cpsr.org, under the filename 
cpsr\crypto\secrecy_statement.txt.

       CPSR is a national organization of professionals in the 
computing field.  Membership is open to the public.  For more 
information on CPSR, contact <cpsr@cpsr.org>. 
