Newsgroups: alt.security,comp.mail.misc,sci.crypt,comp.security.misc,alt.security.ripem
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!darwin.sura.net!haven.umd.edu!uunet!pipex!uknet!comlab.ox.ac.uk!pcl
From: pcl@ox.ac.uk (Paul C Leyland)
Subject: Re: RIPEM Frequently Asked Questions
Message-ID: <PCL.93Jul19102728@rhodium.ox.ac.uk>
Followup-To: alt.security.ripem
In-reply-to: Marc VanHeyningen's message of Fri, 16 Jul 1993 15:22:59 GMT
Organization: Oxford University Computing Services, 13 Banbury Rd Oxford OX2
	6NN
References: <CA9K2B.FDH@usenet.ucs.indiana.edu>
Date: 19 Jul 93 10:27:28
Lines: 93
Xref: msuinfo alt.security:11220 comp.mail.misc:13318 sci.crypt:18055 comp.security.misc:4686 alt.security.ripem:271

In article <CA9K2B.FDH@usenet.ucs.indiana.edu> Marc VanHeyningen <mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu> writes:

   Archive-name: ripem/faq
   Last-update: 15 Jul 93 22:00:00 -0500

   ABOUT THIS POSTING
   ------------------
   This is a listing of likely questions and information about RIPEM, a
   program for public key mail encryption.  It (this FAQ, not RIPEM) was
   written and will be maintained by Marc VanHeyningen
   <mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu>.  It will be posted to a variety of
   newsgroups on a monthly basis; follow-up discussion specific to RIPEM
   is redirected to the group alt.security.ripem.
...

    Whether you use PGP or RIPEM or whatever, the documentation to PGP is
    recommended reading to anyone interested in such issues.
    Unfortunately, it's difficult to find the documentation separate from
    the program.


No longer.  The documentation from PGP has been available for a few
weeks by anon-ftp from black.ox.ac.uk (129.67.1.165) as the files
/DOCS/security/pgp.tar.Z and pgp.zip for Unix and PC machines
respectively.

I believe that these files can safely be made available even by the most
nervous of US system managers.

(Mark: can you add these details to the FAQ for the next edition?)

Paul


















    I do not consider PGP and RIPEM to be in ``competition.''  The two
    programs were designed with different guidelines and priorities, and
    each does a reasonably decent job of doing what it was written to do.
    The authors and users of both programs generally share the goal of
    seeing widespread use of free cryptographic tools to enhance privacy
    and security.  It is unfortunate that they cannot interoperate (yet).

   14)  What about RPEM?

    RPEM stands for Rabin Privacy Enhanced Mail.  It was similar to RIPEM,
    but used a public-key cipher invented by Rabin (which is not RSA) in
    an attempt to avoid the patents on public-key systems.  It was
    written by Mark Riordan, who later wrote RIPEM.

    Its distribution was halted when, contrary to the beliefs of many
    (including Rabin), PKP claimed that their patents were broad enough
    to cover the cipher employed.  This claim is not universally
    accepted, but was not challenged for pragmatic reasons.

    RPEM is not really used anymore.  It is not compatible with RIPEM or PGP.

   15)  What is MIME?

    MIME stands for Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions, and is
    described in RFC 1341.  You can find out about it in the newsgroup
    comp.mail.mime; a FAQ exists on it.  How PEM should interact with
    MIME is not yet entirely clear; some people use the stopgap solution
    of having a MIME type application/x-ripem in order to send RIPEM
    messages as MIME ones.  I hope some standards will emerge.  Draft
    Internet documents exist on the matter.

   16)  What is TIS/PEM?

    Trusted Information System has a different implementation of PEM
    called TIS/PEM.  It is integrated with MH 6.7 (though it doesn't need
    to be used with it.)  It has its own FAQ, and is available via FTP
    from ftp.tis.com.
--
Paul Leyland <pcl@oxford.ac.uk>          | Hanging on in quiet desperation is
Oxford University Computing Service      |     the English way.
13 Banbury Road, Oxford, OX2 6NN, UK     | The time is come, the song is over.
Tel: +44-865-273200  Fax: +44-865-273275 | Thought I'd something more to say.
Finger pcl@black.ox.ac.uk for PGP key    |
