Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!newsserver.jvnc.net!yale.edu!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Subject: SKIPJACK Evaluation
Message-ID: <930718230722.431700@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Date: Sun, 18 Jul 1993 23:07:00 GMT
Lines: 51


Peter Mayner:

>Yup, and by hiring Walt Tuchman they get the benefit of
>all of this experience. I would think that evaluating
>the quality of the cipher would be relatively easy if
>it is, as I understand, a souped up version of DES. They
>be able to use all of the discussion we've had about DES
>over the last x years.

Well, Peter, they may get SOME of the experience of the 
DES evaluation.  Unfortunately, neither we, nor they, will
know that there is any relationship between what they are
shown and what actually goes into the chip.  It is in the
nature of a proprietary algorithm that only the proprietor
knows anything about its effectiveness, and he may not
know what he thinks he knows. 

Shamir and his students have spent more than a decade
studying the DES.  Tuchman and his team have seventeen
man years.  NBS/NIST and NSA have more.  Yet, there are
still questions raised about it here every week.  

It is difficult enough to get confidence in a public 
mechanism with independent implementors.  It is impossible for anyone
to know anything with confidence about something whose 
identity cannot even be known.

We know the identity of the DES because it is widely
published.  By definition, we will never know anything 
more about the identity of SKIPJACK than what the NSA, a
secret agency steeped in traditions of noble deception, 
asserts.  

Remember that NIST will not standardize a software
implementation of the DES.  This is in part because
NSA does not want software implementations; they are
too easy to replicate.  However, it is also because
it is too difficult to know the identity of a software
implementation.  That is, you cannot know the relationship
between that which is certified and that which is sold.

There is nothing that five people can tell us about SKIPJACK that we
can rely upon and use if they cannot tell us how to recognize it when we 
see it.  From the NSA perspective that is not a problem.  SKIPJACK is
not intended to be used.  It is intended to discourage the use of the
DES.  

William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104; New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
1-0-ATT-0-700-WMURRAY; WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
