Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!uunet!portal!cup.portal.com!Christopher_C_Lapp
From: Christopher_C_Lapp@cup.portal.com
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Should the NSA mimic God?
Message-ID: <86119@cup.portal.com>
Date: Thu, 22 Jul 93 17:31:54 PDT
Organization: The Portal System (TM)
Distribution: usa
Lines: 31

God is omnicient and all powerful.  But little is said about
what >God< thinks is important.  The NSA has the same problem
without a set of value judgements to filter all of the information
and prioritize all of the possible actions, the NSA, like God without
value judgements, is in reality impotent and confused.  But if the
NSA makes too complex a set of value judgements, the difference between
valuable information and worthless information is blurred and prioritize
actions becomes a serious problem.  Further, if the values of the NSA beco
open, then the NSA can be manipulated by an adversary using techniques 
previously described in this interest group.  I suggest "value compartmenl-  
ization", both for God and the NSA.  With subunits analyzing a stream of 
information from separate and fundamentally different value positions, the
information and actions necessary to a complex set of values is possible
without creating a confused organization.  God has his angels, and the NSA
should have value compartmentalization.  AT the top, God's throne and the
NSA's lead spook would have a very fundamental set of values, and based on th
the information and suggested actions of the subunits would be "judged".  Fr 
this, a model of the actual state of reality would follow.  Thus the NSA, a  
intelligence community in general should create subgroups that view informati
from different value filters, and thus at any given turn of events, a defens 
based on competing and radically different approaches would emerge from teh 
subgroups.  People in politics, Angels in Heaven, and sub compartments at t  
NSA each serve their masters by viewing the omnicience created by politics,
Gods perceptions, and the NSA's satellites, and breaking down the information
to usable, but not uniform explanations of reality.  In the case of Democrati
politics, the voters decide, in Heaven, Angels can be over-ruled, and at the 
hopefully, those at the top have God-like, simple values that would not compl
complicate their perceptions of the value-compartments feeding action-plans a
perceptions to them
How aboutit NSA?  Time for a Change?  Worried that you may be manipulated?
Chris Lapp.
