Newsgroups: sci.crypt,news.groups
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!purdue!lerc.nasa.gov!news.uakron.edu!neoucom.edu!redpoll!red
From: red@redpoll.mrfs.oh.us (Richard E. Depew)
Subject: Re: Non-Crypt Answer to Actual Crypt Question! 
Message-ID: <CAn70B.JDy@redpoll.mrfs.oh.us>
Followup-To: news.groups
Organization: Home, in Munroe Falls, OH
References: <CAMqDq.6Dy@world.std.com>
Date: Sat, 24 Jul 1993 00:07:21 GMT
Lines: 51
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:18139 news.groups:77108

[follow-ups redirected to news.groups only... this is no longer a
 matter of interest to sci.crypt]

tob@world.std.com (Tom O Breton) writes:
>Richard:
>
>> Use numbered ballots for the next election.
>
>Didn't this idea get thoroughly slaughtered in news.future?

     It *did* attract a few negative comments, yes.  :-)

>I commend you for your obvious public-spirited attempts to improve the
>'Net. I am sure your heart is in the right place (Slightly left of
>center of chest). However, I wish you wouldn't hang on to defeated
>ideas.

     Thank you.

     Defeat is not the correct word.  All that happened was that John
Stanley managed to request several numbered ballots from my ballot
server on the third try.  This demonstrates that a sufficiently
motivated sysadmin will be able to vote more than once, even with
numbered ballots.
     
     However, the flood of unsubstatianted claims of uncounted NO
votes against s.r.i.a would be less likely to happen if numbered
ballots had been used in the balloting.  With a numbered ballot
system, a vote ack could act as a real receipt, at least if the voter
saved the ballot number.  This number would be recorded both by the
ballot server and by the vote taker, but not published.  If the vote
acks included the ballot number, the vote taker could not simply
"lose" the vote... it will have been recorded in the vote database.
A claim of having voted could be substantiated by giving the ballot
number, and having the ballot server confirm that this was, indeed,
the correct ballot number for that voter.  This is a benefit of
numbered ballots that I hadn't anticipated, and it justifies
resurrecting the suggestion.

    If you would like to try the ballot server email "ballot test"
to "ballot-server@redpoll.mrfs.oh.us".  You should receive a fake
numbered ballot in return.  If you don't get one within a day, let me
know.

Regards,
Dick
-- 
Richard E. Depew, Munroe Falls, OH    red@redpoll.mrfs.oh.us (home)
``The greatest blessing of our democracy is freedom.  But in the last
  analysis, our only freedom is the freedom to discipline ourselves.''
  -- Bernard Baruch
