Path: msuinfo!agate!ucbvax!silverton.berkeley.edu!djb
From: djb@silverton.berkeley.edu (D. J. Bernstein)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: You want to publish your dsa.c? Apply for a license from NIST!
Message-ID: <13238.Jul2706.22.3993@silverton.berkeley.edu>
Date: 27 Jul 93 06:22:39 GMT
Organization: IR
Lines: 101

NIST plans to give Public Key Partners exclusive rights to the Digital 
Signature Algorithm. Do you have a free DSA implementation, or have you 
been thinking of writing one for the benefit of the net community? Do 
you want to guarantee your users the rights to this technology? You can!
It's free, if you can spare a stamp.

This is another form letter---just like the personal license application
exhibited in my previous message. You should make sure to apply for a 
personal license. Once you've done that, follow the same instructions
for the implementor's license. Once again, as a bonus, your application
will automatically count as an objection to the NIST-PKP deal!

I believe that NIST must receive your application by next Friday, the
6th of August, but the due date might be earlier. You might want to 
check immediately with Michael Rubin at 301-975-2803. If necessary you 
can fax your letter to him.

---Dan



				[address]
				[date]

Michael R. Rubin
Acting Chief Counsel for Technology
Room A-1111
Administration Building
National Institute of Standards and Technology
Gaithersburg, MD 20899

Dear Mr. Rubin:

I hereby apply for an implementor's license permitting me to sublicense
the use of the Digital Signature Algorithm.

1. Title of invention: Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA).

2. Patent Application Serial Number: 07/738.431.

3. United States Patent Number: To be issued as 5,231,668, I believe.

4. Source of information concerning availability of a license: Various 
sources, including your Federal Register notice.

5. Name and address of applicant: [name], [address, phone, etc.].

6. Applicant's representative: not applicable.

7. I am a [country] citizen.

8. Approximate number of persons employed: not applicable.

9. I am not a small business firm.

10. Purpose: I would like a license allowing me to let others freely
use my implementation of DSA, i.e., allowing me to sublicense the use of
DSA at no cost. See #12.

11. Business and commercialization: not applicable; see #10.

12. Plans: I plan to create a source-code implementation of DSA in 
software, using computer resources which are already available to me.
I plan to give this implementation to anyone who asks, and perhaps to 
publish this implementation via electronic or non-electronic means, for 
study and use by the academic and non-academic communities. I hope to
have people hear about this implementation by a variety of means,
including word of mouth.

								page 2

13. Fields of commercialization: not applicable; see #10.

14. I am not willing to accept a license for less than all fields of use 
of DSA.

15. I intend to implement DSA in [country].

16. Type of license: I would like a non-exclusive license which does not 
require royalty payments.

17. I have never been granted a license to a federally owned invention.

18. Known uses of DSA by industry or government: I have heard that ISC 
sells a product called dsaSIGN, and that Bellcore has implemented DSA.

19. Other information: I understand that NIST may grant an exclusive 
DSA license to PKP, and that this license application will be treated as 
an objection to the PKP license.

Let me emphasize that this is not a commercial license application. I do 
not intend to collect any fees for the use of this implementation.

Thank you for your kind attention. Please let me know if you need more 
information.

				Sincerely,



				[name]
