Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!swrinde!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!usenet.coe.montana.edu!netnews.nwnet.net!news.u.washington.edu!cac.washington.edu!damon
From: damon@cac.washington.edu (Damon Danieli)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Sending data between two systems
Date: 27 Jul 1993 22:06:24 GMT
Organization: UW Computing
Lines: 44
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2348t0$er1@news.u.washington.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: redx.cac.washington.edu
Keywords: RSA Public-key DES


Hello,
I'd like to allow users to send protected messages between their computers
(UNIX/Mac/IBM PC) to my IBM PC, but I don't know if there is a "standard"
way to do this.

Scenario:

[On user's computer] (UNIX/Mac/IBM PC/...)
User runs program I wrote and sent them (I know the keys that are in the
  program).
User specifies files to send to me.
Program encrypts the files (using the keys that I put in the program).
Program sends the files to me.

[On my computer] (IBM PC)
I decrypt them (using the keys I put in the program that I sent the user).

[Pretty simple, huh?]

Questions:

Since I write the program that will be sending the files, do I have to
use a robust public key validating system like Kerberos?  Or can I just
use an algorithm that encrypts using a public key and put this public key
and algorithm in the program?  Are there any obvious security loop-holes?

If I can get by without a robust system like Kerberos and implement the encryption routines myself, are there any routines that I can implement
easily or at least licence?  (I'm not exporting this, nor is 'computation
time to encrypt' a big deal).

What if the user wanted to read the files from me?  Would I have to embed a
private key in the user's program so it could decrypt what I send?  If so,
are there any ways to embed such a key that is reasonably able to resist
attacks by a person looking at the executable?


I don't mind doing a lot of homework, but I'd sure appreciate if someone
could point me in the right direction.

--d;
PS.  I don't know if this post is appropriate to this group because
     everyone has been talking about David Sternlight.  <--I said it again *8)

