Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!spool.mu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!news.kei.com!ub!newserve!sarah!cscnews!rm9681
From: rm9681@csc.albany.edu (robert m. marion)
Subject: Re: Synchonized Chaos & Encryption
In-Reply-To: kingj@hpcc01.corp.hp.com's message of Wed, 28 Jul 1993 21:12:06 GMT
Message-ID: <RM9681.93Jul29204748@eve.albany.edu>
Sender: news@sarah.albany.edu (News Administrator)
Organization: State University of New York at Albany
References: <4400022@hpcc01.corp.hp.com>
Date: 29 Jul 93 20:47:48
Lines: 33

In article <4400022@hpcc01.corp.hp.com> kingj@hpcc01.corp.hp.com (John C. King) writes:

:   The August 1993 "Scientific American" has an interesting article called
:   "Mastering Chaos" by Ditto and Pecora.  They describe a system using a
:   synchonized chaos circuit used for encryption.
:
:   p81: "For example, imagine that Bill wants to send a secret message to Al.
:   Bill has a device that generates a chaotic drive signal, and he has a sub-
:   system that reacts to the signal in a stable way.  Al has a copy of the
:   subsystem.  

 				[etc.]

	I'm a little confused by this.  What is this "device that generates
 a chaotic drive signal"?  I don't want to confuse the issue or start a
 thread that goes off on some tangent.  Nature has many instances of 
 chaotic systems.  The strange attractor of the leaky faucet comes to 
 mind.  Or weather systems.  Now, in your subject heading you use the
 word synchronized.  This is curious, because I have just read an article
 about synchronized chaos, or generating periodic behavior in a chaotic
 system by introducing an aperiodic signal.  I can see where this
 *may* be useful in cryptology.  First generate a chaotic signal,
 then create some periodic phenomena from that system that can be used...
 to do what?  This is where I'm confused.  I tend to think of a useful
 system as one where you generate a key which then alters text by creating 
 a number of permutations that can be reversed by generating an inverse.
	
	 Actually, I think I am
 departing from what you are describing, but the described article does't
 sound very practical and may not even approach the security of a lot
 of existing systems. I would be interested in seeing more articles on
 chaos and cryptology.  Real articles, not the bogus stuff that some 
 cranks seem to be fascinated by.
