Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!news.kei.com!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!noc.near.net!MathWorks.Com!transfer.stratus.com!jjmhome!pig!die
From: die@pig.UUCP (Dave Emery)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: What is meant by "natural language encryption" in Prosody case ?
Keywords: natural language encryption, steganography, covert
Message-ID: <1604@pig.UUCP>
Date: 21 Nov 93 22:16:43 GMT
Reply-To: jjmhome!pig!die@transfer.stratus.com
Organization: Opinion Mongers Incorperated...
Lines: 83


	Just wondering what the NSA was (allegedly) objecting to in
Prosody's so called "natural language encryption".   I am unfamiliar
with this term in this context.

	Guessing, it seems to me to mean either mere ordinary encryption
of natural language text (what most encryption is used for) or a form of
steganography in which messages are hidden in subtle but detectable
alterations of the statistical properties of apparently normal
*un*encrypted natural language text. 

	That NSA would object to the first on grounds that the
techniques used could break a NSA cipher seems incredible.  One would
think that NSA ciphers (Type 1 algorithms especially) would not be
breakable on a PC without access to the specific keys used, far too much
is known about how to design algorithms that are resistant to known
algorithm attacks to imagine that even if someone actually used a NSA
algorithm verbatim there would be a problem.  And besides even if
someone with access to a NSA algorithm had improperly used it in a
commercial product for conventional encipherment of text, why would the
product have to be cancelled - one would think another algorithm could
be substituted (say DES or IDEA) without substantial impact ?

	Which leaves the second possibility - that Prosody was withdrawn
because it implemented natural language steganography or perhaps a
technique for detecting steganographic alterations of normal text.  I
find this intriguing. 

	Presumably steganography sees its uses in modern covert
communications in support of diplomatic and intelligence and maybe even
military activites.  Messages concealed in normal appearing text would
be unlikely to attract the attentions of foreign government equivalents
of the NSA who may be using computers and related technologies to scan
all traffic going into and out of their countries for overtly encrypted
(and therefore intrinsicly potentially interesting) traffic.  Thus
proliferation of technology that could be used to detect the presence of
(although presumably not actually decode to plaintext) such
steganographic messages hidden in the interstices of natural language
text would be of great potential interest to NSA.  And so would
technology for so encoding messages. 

	I would think that anybody who actually used such a system of
steganography would superencrypt the messages under some strong cipher
such a NSA type 1 alogorithm - this would presumably make the statistics
of the text much more random and would prevent someone who knew
of the steganography (which is basicaly security by obscurity) from
obtaining the plaintext.   I do of course recognise that the purpose
of the steganography is concealment of the existance of the communication
rather than securing its contents - and in lots of covert situations
that may actually be the more important goal.

	One certainly pictures all the spy-novel cliche espionage situations in
which protecting the identity of the agent is paramount but communication
must happen anyway.

	The fact the US government acknowlages an interest in the
algorithms used in Prosody because of similarity to techniques it uses
makes me wonder if the US is not broadcasting covert messages hidden in
the statistics of the various natural language text streams it emits. 
One wonders if the federal register encodes messages to secret agents or
if the FBIS or USIA Worldnet feeds of news digests and translations are
in fact the equivalent of those "numbers" transmissions from CIA sites
(Warrenton Training Center) in Virginia and elsewhere.  Maybe somewhere
in the weather service's forecast of snow there is a message to
Bagdad ?

	Of course this ranks up there with my paraniod suspicion that for
some years US network TV transmissions carried covert messages modulated
on high process-gain direct sequence spread spectrum signals buried in
the video noise floor of the analog microwave transmission links used,
and injected covertly somewhere in the AT&T microwave systems that carried
the signals.  This would, of course, allow every TV station carrying the
feed to be broadcasting the message.

	But in fact, rather than fantasy, one suspects that the NSA is
more concerned about other people using the technology against it than
our use of the technology becoming suddenly visible to others.

		  David I. Emery  -  N1PRE  -  Lexington   Mass.
    Former senior technical consultant (and currently unemployed drunken bum)
Internet: jjmhome!pig!die@transfer.stratus.com (preferred) or die@world.std.com
UUCP:     ...uunet!stratus.com!jjmhome!pig!die    Phone + fax: 1+(617)-863-9986

