Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!news.kei.com!ub!galileo.cc.rochester.edu!news
From: gtf@math.rochester.edu (Geoffrey T. Falk)
Subject: Re: Can NSA crack PGP?
Message-ID: <1993Nov23.000410.27068@galileo.cc.rochester.edu>
Sender: news@galileo.cc.rochester.edu
Nntp-Posting-Host: gauss.math.rochester.edu
Organization: University of Rochester Computing Center
References: <199311222336.SAA22403@eff.org>
Date: Tue, 23 Nov 93 00:04:10 GMT
Lines: 43

In article <199311222336.SAA22403@eff.org> mech@eff.org (Stanton McCandlish)  
writes:
> In a FidoNet debate, it's been charged that PGP is unsafe, and that NSA
> can crack it.  The persons holding this viewpoint espouse the idea that
> the NSA can crack anything, pretty much, and that anything they could not
> crack would not be available to the general public, but would have been
> supressed.
> 
> Can anyone disprove this notion definitively?  I'm looking for an
> ironclad case that this idea is incorrect. It'd especially be appreciated
> if anyone with reasonable "credentials" can respond.  

Nobody can disprove this notion definitively. It is extremely difficult in  
complexity theory to prove that such-and-such an algorithm DOES NOT exist...  
for instance, nobody has been able to prove that factoring RSA moduli is  
intrinsically difficult, but most complexity theorists do believe that it is.

However, I happen to believe for the moment that PGP is safe. This doesn't mean  
I could turn out to be wrong tomorrow, but I consider the probability of this  
to be extremely low and consequently I am willing to trust the RSA and IDEA  
cryptosystems with my secrets. [That is, if I actually HAD any secrets.. :-) ]  
Just because the NSA can crack DES doesn't mean they can crack everything. IDEA  
is in all probability many orders of magnitude harder than DES. Certainly a  
brute-force search of the 128-bit IDEA key space is (and will always be)  
completely infeasible.

As for RSA, if the NSA can crack it then they must have discovered theorems in  
number theory that are way ahead of anything known by the mathematical  
community. Sooner or later these results would probably leak out, because they  
are mathematically interesting, not just cryptographically important.

Besides, why do you suppose the feds are making a stink about PGP, if they  
could crack it? You'd think that they would like us to have as strong as  
possible a false sense of security.

I don't have a PhD in cryptography. However I have a BSc in mathematics, and I  
did a summer project studying DES in which I gained some understanding of  
differential cryptanalysis, so my beliefs in this matter have at least some  
foundation. 

[I have not myself seen any part of the FidoNet debate you mention.]

g.
