Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!phr
From: phr@netcom.com (Paul Rubin)
Subject: Re: PC Based One-Time Pad
Message-ID: <phrCH2HGw.7r0@netcom.com>
Organization: Netcom - Online Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
References: <CH24Dp.1yn@world.std.com>
Date: Thu, 25 Nov 1993 21:38:56 GMT
Lines: 27

In article <CH24Dp.1yn@world.std.com> kkirksey@world.std.com (Ken B Kirksey) writes:
>It seems like this would be a fairly easy system to implement, but since
>no one (to my knowledge) has yet done so, there must be something I'm
>missing. :-)  Secure distribution and storage of the pad disk could be
>difficult, but not insurmountable. The only hurdle that comes to mind is that
>filling a 1.4 meg floppy, or even a 700k floppy, with a sequence of TRULY
>random bits might be difficult and/or very time consuming.  Any thoughts?

I think there's a general feeling that conventional cryptography
(triple DES or whatever) is quite secure and therefore bulk one-time
pads are unnecessary unless very high-powered opponents are after your
information.  At that level, you have to start worrying about tempest
attacks, kidnapping and torture of your couriers, truth serums, and
all that kind of thing; computer algorithms are only a small part of
your problem and you can build hardware sources of random bits without
making a dent in the budget you need to handle the rest of the stuff.

Nonetheless, I've thought about how you could conveniently get random
bits on a conventional PC.  My current idea is to use the digitized
audio input from a Soundblaster-type board with its analog input
connected to a microphone (to pick up ambient noise) or radio receiver
tuned between stations (more noise) as a source of entropy, and
continually stir this entropy into a conventional cryptographic RNG
such as the one in PGP or RSAREF.  I'd be interested in hearing what
people think of this idea.  It seems to me to be a good way to get
random bits for session keys and the like; I haven't really been thinking
about one-time pads.
