Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: VCRPlus Codes
Message-ID: <strnlghtCH3ApA.GBy@netcom.com>
Keywords: VCRPLUS
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <1993Nov25.232502.12838@softwords.bc.ca>
Date: Fri, 26 Nov 1993 08:10:22 GMT
Lines: 34

In article <1993Nov25.232502.12838@softwords.bc.ca>,
Mike Stanlake <mstanlak@cue.bc.ca> wrote:
>I am interested in decoding VCRPlus codes, and the FAQ in sci.crypt
>directed me to an article in the journal Cryptologia.  The local

An archie search will find some programs for this--they only work for up to
six digit codes.

To decode, why not use a VCR+ device itself?

By the way, there's a new model out, which has many advanced features. Two
of the best are that one can call a number and have it initialized for one's
hardware and channel setup automatically--there's a microphone on the bottom
to put against your phone earphone. Another is that once one enters any code
in, one can push an "alter" button and change the settings--channel, date,
start time, duration, and whether once, weekly, or M-F. In effect this
allows one to set up the device without knowing the code for a particular
program, and also do useful tricks like setting up a six hour, one-hour
segments program (contiguous segments of course) by entering just the first
hour and then extending the duration. This saves five entries.

It also has a "now" button for recording any specified channel from now
through a specified duration.

The new model has a nicer physical design as well and is more square than
rectangular. The price is about what the old one cost, and the price of the
original has been dropped--at Fedco the original is now $35 and the new one
$49.

David

-- 
David Sternlight         When the mouse laughs at the cat,
                         there is a hole nearby.--Nigerian Proverb
