Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!sgiblab!munnari.oz.au!metro!sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au!laurel.ocs.mq.edu.au!ifarqhar
From: ifarqhar@laurel.ocs.mq.edu.au (Ian Farquhar)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Information about SENECA
Date: 26 Nov 1993 00:43:44 GMT
Organization: Macquarie University
Lines: 137
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2d3jg0$d7o@sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au>
NNTP-Posting-Host: laurel.ocs.mq.edu.au
Summary: The Australian DES-replacement - brief information
Keywords: SENECA, DES, DSD, DSTO, Australian Government

This article was posted on the 1st November, but I have not received
any feedback at all from it.  Unfortunately, it appears that our news
system was down over this period, so I am assuming that this article
was a casualty of that outage.

                             * * * *

I've been chasing information about SENECA for about a week now, and
due to the interest that has been expressed on sci.crypt, I am posting
a summary of what I have found out about this cipher.

I had initially called the DSTO and discovered, to my surprise and theirs, 
that it had been the DSD who had released the information about SENECA.  
DTSO then provided me with a contact name at the DSD.  For those unfamiliar 
with the Australian security services, the DSD could be said to be the 
Australian analog of the US NSA, and "holds the responsibility for advising
the Federal Government on means of securing national and privacy information".

Unfortunately, the summary is that SENECA will not be publicly released,
either as an algorithm, or in silicon.

An excerpt of the PCWeek article has already been posted.  Following is
the full article, which I am reproducing here without permission in
accordance with section 40 of the Australian Copyright Act 1968 ("fair
dealing" for the purposes of research and study).

>From PCWeek Magazine, October 20, 1993.  ISSN 1030-6137.  Article title
"DES Killer Ensures Secure Government".

"The Australian government has secretly developed its own data encryption
firmware and algorithm, killing its dependence on the US DES (Data Encryption
Standard) algorithm."

"Called SENECA, the firmware element was developed as a joint project
of the Defence Science and Technology Organisation (DSTO) in Adelaide and
the Defence Signals Directorate (DSD) in Canberra.  SENECA will only be 
available to approved users within approved government departments in
Australia and New Zealand, said the DSD source close to the four-year-old
project.  It will not be available to the States or banks."

"'SENECA will be used only for sensitive data; no Nationally Classified
data applications will be given access,' the source said.  Tax file numbers,
social security and other high-security personal data are all classified
as sensitive."

"The encryption algorithm was developed in conjunction with Melbourne firm
Cima.  The chip has been produced by AWA Micro Electronics.  The DSD has been
in possession of the chip since December last year."

"It is a symmetric encryption technology like DES, but can operate at very
high speeds," said the source.  SENECA's original specifications included
a though-put of 2Mbps, but testing has achieved rates of 20Mbps."

"SENECA will be available soon to a limited number of vendors with security
clearance, for insertion into products for approved government use."

(Byline: Chris Moriarty.  Additionally: "Chris Moriarty works for the
specialist networking publication, LAN Magazine."  I should also point out
that this month's LAN Magazine has a blatantly silly article about DES,
which claims that it is a "top secret" US Government algorithm which has
been given only to seven other countries.)

Some further information:

The cipher, as stated above, is not cleared for use in national security
applications.  What it is intended as is a replacement for DES in the
new privacy classifications of "highly protected", "protected" and
"in confidence".  Formerly DES had been employed for these classifications,
but was now seen as inappropriate.  Unfortunately, I did not raise the question 
of triple DES.  (See note 1 below.)

The article above had been in error, as the encryption algorithm was developed
as a joint project between the DSD and a DSTO group in Melbourne.  Up until a 
couple of years ago, the DSD was based in Melbourne, but later moved to 
Canberra.

Producers of cryptographic equipment for the Australian government would
be supplied with only the number of chips to fill their orders, and
access to the device will be highly controlled.  Note that release to
state government departments and banks is not going to happen.  Note also
that there is no key escrow mechanism, as the release of the device
itself would be tightly controlled.

I think that the most interesting comment about SENECA concerns not that 
cipher, but DES itself.  The DSD appears unwilling to certify even DES for 
information given under an "in confidence" classification.  One could argue 
that when compared to the usual security classifications, even "highly 
protected" is a relatively low security grouping.  I find it fascinating 
that single-DES is now being deemed inappropriate for even these.  
Interestingly, SENECA's key size is 64 bits, which I questioned as inadequate,
but which I was told was deemed suitable for this classification of 
information.  (See note 2 below.)

As was stated in the article, the New Zealand government have also requested
a supply of SENECA chips, although they have not requested access to the
algorithm as yet.  (See note 3 below.)

I also find it rather sad that the Australian government has not decided
to release SENECA.  There is a crying need to replace DES with a cipher
which has been rigorously tested, and whose definition is formalised without
the royalty or licencing problems of many other proven ciphers.

As a matter of courtesy, I passed this article onto the person I contacted
at the DSD for his comment and correction.  He faxed me a page of information
(mostly corrections and clarifications), which I have either incorporated
into the relevant sections above, or which I will repeat in note-form
below:

Note 1: In my original version of this document, I had made the comment
that DES was now seen as "inadequate", but it was suggested that I change
this to "inappropriate".  The statement was: "[my wording] does not accurately
convey the situation was we [DSD] see it.  DES has been one of several 
algorithms approved for these classifications, other proprietary algorithms 
have also been approved following DSD evaluation.  Also, I would prefer to see 
the word 'inappropriate' used instead of 'inadequate' as, among other things, 
we see DES as having its proper place in the banking industry and not for 
protecting government and privacy information."

Note 2: "I would state our expectation with regard to DES within the
Australian Government as follows.  Where DES is already in use, it will
remain in use and will be supported by DSD until it becomes necessary to
replace existing equipment.  Purchases of equipment for new systems will be
expected to be SENECA based when that option exists.  It is our hope that 
over time, SENECA will be the dominant algorithm protecting government
communications and that DES will gradually be phased out."

Note 3: "The New Zealand government, when informed of this initiative,
asked whether SENECA based products, or the chips, would be made available
to them, and this has been agreed by DSD.  To date there have been no
products to offer the NZ government, and only a small number of prototype
chips have been produced, these being held by DSD."

--
Ian Farquhar                      Phone : + 61 2 805-9400
Office of Computing Services      Fax   : + 61 2 805-7433
Macquarie University  NSW  2109   Also  : + 61 2 805-7420
Australia                         EMail : ifarqhar@laurel.ocs.mq.edu.au.
