Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!demon!an-teallach.com!gtoal
Newsgroups: comp.sources.testers,sci.crypt
From: gtoal@an-teallach.com (Graham Toal)
Subject: Re: Announcing KFS -- Encrypting Filesystem for SunOS 4.1.X
References: <CH2FtK.DAq@lila.com>
Organization: An Teallach Limited
Date: Fri, 26 Nov 1993 13:31:09 +0000
Message-ID: <199311261331.NAA00995@an-teallach.com>
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk
Lines: 32
Xref: msuinfo comp.sources.testers:209 sci.crypt:21471

In article <CH2FtK.DAq@lila.com> dorsey@lila.com (Bill Dorsey) writes:
:KFS is an encrypting filesystem written for Sun computers running SunOS
:4.1.x.  KFS was designed to be compatible with existing filesystem tools
:such as dump and fsck, thus allowing normal archival and recovery tools
:to be used with it.  It is implemented as a layor on top of UFS, and
:usage is similar to the LOFS (loopback filesystem).

:Until the laws here in the U.S. change with regard to the export of
:cryptographic software, I regret that I will be unable to release my
:source code to those outside of the U.S. and Canada.  Until I can
:find an FTP site willing to carry my source code, I am going to have
:to release it on an individual basis.

Absolutely right.

By the way, you wouldn't be interested in writing a filing system for
Sun computers that is designed to be compatible with existing filesystem
recovery tools such as dump and fsck, and which is implemented as a layer
on top of UFS, which would allow us to, say, checksum individual blocks
of data on disk as they're read and written, in order to give us some
extra reliability in our filing systems would you?  If you wrote it
in a sufficiently modular manner, we could plug in our own checksum
routines perhaps for even greater reliability... :-)

I can't see *anyone* objecting to you distributing a CRC checking
program...

G (whose favourite CRC is called IDEA ;-) )

PS Actually you could do something nearly legit that's similar and
probably actually wanted - on the fly disk compression for unix.
But that's another project in itself...
