Path: msuinfo!caen!math.ohio-state.edu!darwin.sura.net!emory!cs.utk.edu!nntp.memst.edu!jacampbell
From: jacampbell@msuvx2.memst.edu (James A. Campbell)
Newsgroups: alt.security.pgp,sci.crypt
Subject: Full Text of *Guardian* PGP Article
Message-ID: <1993Nov27.023854.12419@msuvx2.memst.edu>
Date: 27 Nov 93 02:38:54 -0500
Organization: Memphis State University
Lines: 91
Xref: msuinfo alt.security.pgp:6568 sci.crypt:21485

And now, due to popular demand...

The following article was published in The Guardian, November 25, 1993,
Features Page, Page 17, and is Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Ltd.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          ENTER THE CRYPTO FACTOR:
               How Computers Could Give Us Back the Privacy
                    That Computerisation Has Taken Away

                             By Wendy Grossman

    THE NEWS came, appropriately enough, over the electronic networks:
Phil Zimmermann needs help. The details followed: the US Customs
Department is investigating him to determine whether he was responsible
for exporting full-strength encryption from the US. Under US law, strong
encryption is classified as a munitions.
    Zimmermann is the author of the first version of PGP, which
stands for "Pretty Good Privacy". The program runs on a variety of
microcomputers and is widely available as freeware on online services
all over the world, including Cix and CompuServe. In fact, the program
is probably "exported" many times every day. Anyone can use it to make
sure that their electronic communications are secure.
    Zimmermann seems to have become interested in cryptography as early
as junior school. Computers came into it later: after taking a computer
science degree in Florida he became a computer consultant specialising
in cryptography. It wasn't until 1991 that PGP 1.0, a DOS program, was
released: one of the technical difficulties was learning how to get
computers to do calculations involving 300-digit numbers. Since then
others have built on Zimmermann's work; there are versions of the
program for DEC VAX VMS, Unix and even Microsoft Windows. There have
also been improved DOS versions: we are now up to 2.3.
    PGP is based on the RSA encryption algorithm, named for its
developers, Rivest, Shamir and Adelman. RSA relies on a system called
public-key cryptography. The program starts by generating two keys, a
public and a private one. Your private key is just that: private. You
keep it safe and share it with no one. Your public key, however, you get
digitally signed by people who know you and can attest that it's yours.
After that you can distribute it as widely as you like by any method you
like.  There are already "key servers" - one of them at Demon Internet
Limited in London - where public keys are available for downloading by
anyone who wants them. But you will, of course, keep a "key ring" of
your correspondents' public keys, which you will use to decrypt their
messages.
    Public-key cryptography has several elegant features. First,
the encryption really is "industrial strength". Second, the keys
authenticate messages as well as protect them from prying eyes: if a
message can be decrypted using your public key, that's a guarantee that
the message came from you - and you can't later disavow it.
    Enter the cypherpunks, to whom Zimmermann is a hero. Instead of
relying on data protection legislation and the goodwill of systems
administrators, they argue, use the computer to give us back the privacy
that computerised systems have taken away.  Think of encryption as an
envelope: you wouldn't want to send all your private mail on postcards,
would you? The private nature of the act of writing electronic mail and
messages makes it easy to forget how public they really are.
    Protecting the privacy of correspondence is only the beginning.
Other proposed uses for encryption include digital cash, which would
allow you to pay for goods and services electronically and anonymously,
and selective smart cards, which would only tell authorities the
information they need and no more. For example, you could have a card
that told the DSS you were entitled to benefit, but gave staff none of
your personal details.
    The fact that it's illegal to export strong encryption from the US
does not make it illegal to use PGP in the UK. However, it has been
technically illegal to use PGP inside the US, because the RSA algorithm
is patented by RSA Data Security, a company set up to exploit RSA, which
was developed at MIT with public funding.
    Ironically this patent is not valid in the UK and other countries,
because of prior publication in Scientific American. This situation may
be changing: a commercial version of PGP is being released in the US,
and the GATT talks may uphold such US patents. (Of course many
cypherpunks argue that it should not be possible to patent an algorithm,
any more than you should be allowed to patent the human genome or a
compound's molecular structure.)
    The present US Customs investigation doesn't deal with the patent
issues, only the export question. But it's come at the same time as
Clinton's Clipper Chip proposals and the Digital Telephony bill, both of
which seek to limit the strength of encryption available within the US.
This has a certain irony: encryption is too dangerous to be given to the
American public, but anyone can have a gun.
    The result has been to give Zimmermann some of the gloss of a folk
hero: he is regarded as being the man who gave strong encryption to the
masses.
    Zimmermann contends that he did not export PGP. But win or lose, he
will face the usual astronomical American legal bills, so a defense fund
has been set up by his attorney (email: dubois@csn.org). And win or
lose, the technology is out there now. No amount of scouring of the
world's hard discs will ever bring it back under control.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
