Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!news.moneng.mei.com!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!olivea!apple.com!apple.com!not-for-mail
From: romana@apple.com (Romana Machado)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Steganography Tool for the Mac Available
Date: 29 Nov 1993 17:02:26 -0800
Organization: Apple Computer, Inc., Cupertino, California
Lines: 63
Message-ID: <2de632$gpt@apple.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: apple.com

Announcing Stego 1.0a2
The First Steganography Tool For The Macintosh
by Romana Machado of Paradigm Shift Research
11/28/93

What is steganography?

Steganography is a method by which a message can be 
disguised by making it appear to be something else. It derives 
from two Greek roots. "Stego-" means "roof", or "cover". 
It is the same root used in "stegosaur", called a "roof lizard"
 because of the large bony plates that decorate its back.
"-graphy" means writing. 
"Steganography" means covert writing.

What is Stego?

Stego is a tool that enables you to embed data in, and retrieve 
data from, Macintosh PICT format files, without changing the 
appearance or size of the PICT file.  Though its effect is visually 
undetectable, do not expect cryptographic security from Stego.  
Be aware that anyone with a copy of Stego can retrieve your 
data from your PICT file.  Stego  can  be used as an "envelope" 
to hide a _previously encrypted_ data file in a PICT file, 
making it much less likely to be detected.

How does Stego work?

Stego works by slightly altering pixel values.  Every computer 
graphics image is made up of an array of tiny dots of color, 
called pixels. The color of each pixel is determined by its pixel 
value, a number. In a computer, all numbers, and all data are 
expressed by sequences of bits. The number of bits used to express 
the pixel value indicates the range of possible colors 
available in that image. For example, in an 8 bit computer graphics 
image, each pixel's color is determined by a sequence of 8 bits.  
The first bit in the sequence is called the "most significant bit", 
because it affects the pixel value the most, and the last bit in the 
sequence is called the "least significant bit", because it affects 
the pixel value the least.  Stego hides data by reading your data 
file one bit at a time, and copying each bit to the least 
significant bit of each pixel value as it scans across the image. 

Where Can I Get Stego?
Stego is  available _now_ via anonymous ftp from 
ghost.dsi.unimi.it, in the /pub/crypt directory.
If for some reason you can't find
it in this location, mail me $15.00 
and your physical or email address.
I will send it to you.

Don't Forget!
Stego is shareware. You can help to support further 
development by sending $15.00 or any stegosaur to:

Romana Machado
19672 Stevens Creek Blvd. Box 127
Cupertino, CA 95014


Bugs? Questions?
EMail: romana@apple.com

