Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!newsserver.jvnc.net!igor.rutgers.edu!farside.rutgers.edu!hedrick
From: hedrick@farside.rutgers.edu (Charles Hedrick)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: RSA/PKP
Message-ID: <Dec.5.18.48.54.1993.4126@farside.rutgers.edu>
Date: 5 Dec 93 23:48:55 GMT
References: <l455361@pro-cynosure.clark.net>
Organization: Rutgers Univ., New Brunswick, N.J.
Lines: 33

barryh@pro-cynosure.clark.net (Barry Herman) writes:

>Uh, could you answer a quick question for me?  Does PKP hold the patent for
>its implementation of the RSA algorithm _or_ the algorithm itself?

Somewhere between.  Assuming that the patent is valid at all (there
are issue that haven't been tested in the courts, because nobody has
been willing to pay for the lawyers), it would cover the application
of certain algorithms for certain purposes.  You can't exactly patent
mathematical algorithms, but you can patent processes that use them
for specific things.  (You'd need to ask a lawyer to define this more
precisely.  And you might want to ask several lawyers, because you'll
get different answers.  Some of them will be worded like "while this
issue hasn't been litigated yet, I'd be happy to take a case based on
it and see how it comes out.")  If the patent was written carefully,
it will cover all uses of interest.  So from a practical point of
view, the algorithm itself is patented.  However if it turns out that
the mathematics underlying RSA can be used to do something that the
authors hadn't thought of, they might not be covered by the patent.

Patents have been called "licenses to sue."  They typically contain
lists of claims, some of which are probably too broad to stand up in
court.  However there's no way to be sure unless you're willing to
fight it.

Now you see why lots of people think software patents are a problem.
It's almost certain that many of them are invalid, but it's too
expensive to find out.  They can be invalid because they are too
broad, or because someone else already did something sufficiently
similar.  But because it takes so much time and money to go through
the court proceedings, and nobody can predict what a court will do in
an area like this, the threat of suit is normally enough to stop
people.
