Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!EU.net!uknet!bradford.ac.uk!S.J.Shepherd
From: S.J.Shepherd@bradford.ac.uk (SJ SHEPHERD)
Subject: New kid in town
Message-ID: <1993Dec6.155902.25469@bradford.ac.uk>
Lines: 63
Organization: University of Bradford, UK
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL9]
Date: Mon, 6 Dec 1993 15:59:02 GMT


Dear colleagues

I have just moved to the University of Bradford and have taken over the Cryptography
and Computer Security Group in the Elec Eng Dept.  We offer final year undergraduate
and postgraduate courses in cryptography, cryptanalysis and computer security (the
only UK university to do this).

We are also active in research in this field.  I can answer many of the questions
raised by members of this group, and will endeavour to do so over the coming months!

To start with...

1.  NSA are a very powerful organisation with immense resources, but let us not get
any romantic ideas of their power verging on the magical!  Integer factorization
is KNOWN to be a computationally hard (in the strict mathematical sense) problem and
even NSA cannot defy the laws of algebraic number theory.  Interestingly, it is has
NOT been shown to be NP-complete.  It is beleived to be in the class NPI and so it
is (just) feasible that a leap of intellectual insight could move the problem into
P but it has NOT happened yet.  Therefore, RSA, PGP etc when PROPERLY USED are quite
secure against attack.  This is why the NSA are wetting themselves and running around
arresting the authors, distributors etc.  Pay no attention to them.  The excellent
constitution of the United States guarantees the rights to free expression, including
expressing oneself in coded form.  Carry on using RSA, PGP, DES etc.  I hace some
good fast C code for DES that runs on SUNS and other 32 bit machines that is all
in ONE file (only needing STDIO.H to compile).  Please email me for a copy.

2.  TEMPEST used to be a "codeword" subject but was declassified a while ago.  It
IS possible to pull in signals from monitors - when I was doing my Ph.D I built a
sensitive tempest received for about 30 quid (30 pounds to our overseas friends)
and it had good-ish range.  However, open your computer monitor, spray the inside
with conductive spray, earth it via a bonding lead, and the problem is finished.
No more NSA/GCHQ problems!

3.  Carmichael number - the leading authority is Dr Richard Pinch at Cambridge
(Cambridge, England - as if there were any other !!! :-).  He can be contacted
on r.g.e.pinch@owl.pmms.cam.ac.uk and he has an excellent FTP archive of stuff.

4.  ONE TIME PADS - there exists and EXCELLENT otp system for the PC with matched
pairs of disks generated from atmospheric phenomena - the most random source known
to physics.  The systems is called WARLOCK and handles key use logging, automatic
synchronisation at the received, menu driven etc etc etc.

5.  Any newcomer to crypto could do a lot worse than to read "Cipher Systems" by
Henry Beker and Fred Piper, Norwood House Publications.  It is an excellent and
gentle introduction covering everything up to public key crypto.

6.  Finally, a request for myself!  I have been given an excellent little utility
for cracking Word Perfect 5.1 password-porotected files.  Can anyone tell me their
algorithm to save me the hassle of taking it apart myself?  Ta!

Best wishes


Simon J Shepherd
Cryptography and Computer Security Group
The University, Bradford, BD7 1DP, UK.
s.j.shepherd@uk.ac.bradford

------------------------------------------


