Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!blatz.cs.uwm.edu!desmedt
From: desmedt@blatz.cs.uwm.edu (Dr. Yvo Desmedt)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.theory
Subject: Crypto '94 -  Call for papers
Date: 8 Dec 1993 09:48:56 GMT
Organization: University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee
Lines: 108
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2e47u8INNmsh@uwm.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: 129.89.2.6
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:21860 comp.theory:8575



                              C R Y P T O  ' 9 4

                August 21-25, 1994, Santa Barbara, California

                               CALL FOR PAPERS
                               ---------------
GENERAL INFORMATION
Crypto '94, the Fourteenth Annual CRYPTO Conference, is organized by the
International Association for Cryptologic Research (IACR), in cooperation with
the IEEE Computer Society Technical Committee on Security and Privacy, and the
Computer Science Department of the University of California.  Original papers
are solicited on all aspects of cryptology.

TOPICS OF INTEREST
The topics of interest include but are not limited too:

  -) Applications                         -) Implementation Aspects
  -) Authentication                       -) Information Theoretical Aspects
  -) Combinatorial Aspects                -) Key Distribution               
  -) Computational Complexity Aspects     -) Number Theoretic Aspects
  -) Computer Security Aspects		  -) Practical Aspects              
  -) Conventional Cryptosystems           -) Protocols                      
  -) Cryptanalysis                        -) Pseudo Randomness
  -) Cryptographic Hash Functions         -) Public Key    
  -) Digital Signatures                   -) Secret Sharing
  -) Electronic Money                     -) Standards
  -) Foundations and Theory               -) Zero-knowledge

INSTRUCTIONS FOR AUTHORS
Send a cover letter, one title page and 15 copies of an extended abstract to
be received by March 4, 1994, (or postmarked by February 23, 1994 and sent via
airmail) to the Program Chair at the address given below.  The title page
should contain the title, the name of the authors, their postal and E-MAIL
addresses and the abstract.  The extended abstract should start with the title
and the abstract, but should be ANONYMOUS.  This should be followed by a
succinct statement appropriate for a non-specialist reader specifying the
subject addressed, its background, the main achievements, and their
significance to cryptology.  Technical details directed to specialist should
then follow.  A limit of 10 singlespaced pages of 12pt type (not counting the
bibliography and clearly marked appendices) is placed on all submissions.
Since referees are not required to read the appendices, the paper should be
intelligible without them.

Abstracts that have been or will be submitted in parallel to other conferences
or workshops that have proceedings are NOT eligible for submission to Crypto.
The authors must state compliance to this rule in their cover letter.  A LaTeX
style file and an example of a cover letter will be available after January 1,
by sending e-mail to statuscrypto94@csd4.csd.uwm.edu

CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS
Crypto '94 will be the first Crypto conference where proceedings will be
available at the meeting. These proceedings will be published in the Springer
Verlag's Lecture Notes in Computer Science.  Clear instructions about the
final copy will be sent to authors of accepted papers.  The final copies of
the accepted papers will be due on June 8, 1994.  Final papers arriving too
late will be REMOVED FROM THE MAIN PROGRAM. Authors of accepted papers must
guarantee that their paper will be presented at the conference.

A limited number of stipends are available to those unable to obtain funding
to attend the conference.  Students whose papers are accepted and who will
present the paper themselves are encouraged to apply if such assistance is
needed.  Requests for stipends should be addresses to the general chair.
 
IMPORTANT DATES
Submission receipt deadline:   March  4 (or postmarked airmail February 23)
Notification sent to authors:  April 25, 1994
Final copies due:              June   8, 1994

PROGRAM COMMITTEE
Yvo Desmedt, Program Chair, University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee, USA
Tom Berson, Anagram Laboratories, USA
Don Coppersmith, IBM T. J. Watson Research Center, USA
Donald Davies, United Kingdom
Shimon Even, Technion, Israel
Amos Fiat, Tel Aviv University, Israel
Russell Impagliazzo, University of California San Diego, USA
Ingemar Ingemarsson, University of Linkoping, Sweden
Mitsuru Matsui, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Japan
Alfred Menezes, Auburn University, USA
Andrew Odlyzko, AT&T Bell Laboratories, USA
Jennifer Seberry, University of Wollongong, Australia
Ben Smeets, Lund University, Sweden
Moti Yung, IBM T. J. Watson Research Center, USA


Send submissions to:

Yvo Desmedt, Program Chair Crypto '94
Dept. of C&O (combinatorics and optimization)
University of Waterloo
Ontario N2L 3G1
Canada
Internet: desmedt@cs.uwm.edu
Fax: before January 26: +972 (4) 294353
     after  January 26: +1 (519) 746-3077

For other information, contact the General Chair:

Jimmy R. Upton, General Chair Crypto '94
Uptronics Incorporated
1590 Oakland Road
Suite B203
San Jose, CA  95131
USA
Internet: jupton@netcom.com
fax: +1 (408) 451-8901
