Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!uknet!cix.compulink.co.uk!klockstone
From: klockstone@cix.compulink.co.uk ("Keith Lockstone")
Subject: Origins of authentication?
Message-ID: <CHpvpx.7Ar@cix.compulink.co.uk>
Organization: Compulink Information eXchange
Date: Wed, 8 Dec 1993 12:51:33 GMT
Lines: 178


In a recent article article on the history of writing, I believe 
we can see the first attempts at authentication.
 
The Washington Post newswire article is quoted in full with the 
lines of interest highlighted ( *> ).
 
Any thoughts?  Do we have any historians here?
 
 
Best Regards,
 
Keith Lockstone.
 
 
 
------------------Cut Here--------------------------------------
 
   WP   12/06 
 
History of Writing May Be Written in Sumerian Tokens of Trade
-------------------------------------------------------------
 
By Boyce Rensberger, Washington Post Staff Writer
 
Generations of archaeologists digging in humanity's earliest 
settlements ignored the unspectacular little artifacts of clay 
that turned up in so many Mesopotamian excavations. If they wrote 
about them at all, they called the thumb-sized balls, cones, 
disks and other shapes "enigmatic objects" or guessed they were 
merely children's toys. 
 
Since the 1970s, however, a University of Texas specialist in 
Middle Eastern studies has been building a strong case that the 
objects are fundamental clues to nothing less than one of the 
most important advances in human intellectual evolution. 
 
The hardened bits of clay, she has shown, reveal how the ancient 
Sumerians developed the world's first writing. They also strongly 
challenge the longstanding belief that Sumerian cuneiform, as the 
most advanced form of the writing is called, evolved from 
"picture writing" - the use of little drawings, or pictographs, 
of real objects to stand for words. 
 
More than that, according to the newest discoveries by Denise 
Schmandt-Besserat, professor of Middle Eastern studies at UT's 
Austin campus, the clay tokens, as she calls them, also tell how 
the Sumerians developed the concept of abstract numbers. In fact, 
her evidence suggests that the need to count led to the ability 
to write and that literacy and its mathematical equivalent, 
numeracy, rose in tandem, together transforming the nature of 
civilization. 
 
Digging Into a Mystery
 
The French American scholar's discoveries have won high praise in 
a field noted for discord. 
 
"Every so often, a field of study is revolutionized by a single 
discovery or a unique hypothesis," William W. Hallo, a Yale 
University expert in the ancient Middle East wrote of the new 
findings in a foreword to Schmandt-Besserat's monograph, "Before 
Writing," published earlier this year. Her research, Hallo said, 
"promises to play such a role in our understanding of the 
emergence of civilization." 
 
The origin of writing had long been a puzzle. The oldest known 
examples have been found in digs at Uruk (the Biblical Erech), 
one of the major cities of Sumer, the world's first civilization. 
The Sumerian culture arose in the fertile Tigris and Euphrates 
river valleys of what is now Iraq, a region called Mesopotamia, 
about 5,400 years ago. 
 
Sumerian writing emerged about three centuries later. About the 
same time, the ancient Egyptians developed their hieroglyphic 
writing. In later centuries, writing also arose - probably 
independently - in China and among the Maya of Central America. 
 
At one time, some scholars supposed writing was the invention of 
individual geniuses who simply thought it up. More recently, it 
has been seen as the result of a gradual process. Until Schmandt-
Besserat's research, however, the nature of that process had been 
elusive. 
 
"My work on the clay tokens suggests that these were the early 
form of the activity that would become writing," Schmandt-
Besserat said. She has discerned the roots of writing twice as 
far into the past as had been supposed - to a time about 10,000 
years ago when agriculture was just beginning to replace hunting 
and gathering. 
 
The tokens first came to light in archaeological digs into strata 
of that antiquity in what is now Iran. The origin of token-making 
- bits of clay formed by hand into balls, balls flattened into 
disks, oblongs, cylinders, cones, cubes and tetrahedrons - it 
turned out, predated the manufacture of pottery. Tokens were, in 
fact, the first clay objects hardened by fire. About 10,000 of 
the objects have been found in more than 100 archaeological 
sites. 
 
*> Schmandt-Besserat said major clues to their meaning came from two 
*> scholarly predecessors. In a 1966 paper Pierre Amiet, a 
*> specialist in Middle Eastern antiquities at the Louvre in Paris, 
*> suggested that the tokens were counters, pieces used to represent 
*> specific commodities. He cited an earlier discovery by Leo 
*> Oppenheim of the University of Chicago. This was a hollow clay 
*> ball found in the 1920s at a site near ancient Babylon that was 
*> occupied long after the invention of writing. The outside had a 
*> cuneiform inscription that read: "Counters representing small 
*> cattle: 21 ewes that lamb, 6 female lambs . . . " and so on until 
*> 49 animals were described. When workers broke open the ball, out 
*> tumbled 49 bits of fired clay. 
*> 
*> Oppenheim speculated that the objects were part of an accounting 
*> system by which the local bureaucracy kept records. 
*> 
*> On reading Amiet's paper, Schmandt-Besserat said, "two pieces of 
*> the puzzle snapped together for me." She immediately saw a link 
*> to the many tokens from sites occupied thousands of years before 
*> writing began. They too might have been part of a preliterate 
*> accounting system. 
*> 
*> Schmandt-Besserat's subsequent research has shown that before the 
*> advent of writing, hollow clay balls were used as "bills of 
*> lading" to accompany shipments of goods. When a shipper delivered 
*> a cargo of jars of oil, for example, he would surrender the clay 
*> ball to the recipient, who could break it open and confirm that 
*> the correct quantities had arrived. 
*> 
*> In later years, the Texas scholar said, Sumerian accountants 
*> thought of a simple way to verify the contents of a ball without 
*> destroying it. They would press each token against the outer 
*> surface of the ball before it hardened, then put them through a 
*> hole and seal the ball. Soon after, the accountants realized that 
*> once they made the impressions, there was no need for the tokens. 
*> The shape of the token, showing in the hardened clay, carried the 
*> meaning. 
 
Indeed, Schmandt-Besserat has found that the shapes correspond 
closely to the first kind of Sumerian writing, which has been 
called pictography but, which she stresses, is not very 
pictographic. The symbols are incised in wet clay with stylus but 
only a few of the symbols are pictorial; most are abstract shapes 
and correspond to the shapes left by tokens pressed in wet clay. 
 
A New Kind of Symbol
 
At least as important, she found the switch to "pictographic" 
writing came at the same time as another key intellectual 
advance. When tokens were used, each stood for one unit of a 
commodity. To indicate, say, 10 jars of oil, 10 "jar of oil" 
tokens would be put inside the clay ball. When writing appeared, 
the same meaning was conveyed by one "jar of oil" pictograph plus 
a new kind of symbol that meant "10." 
 
"We knew there was something that had to come before writing," 
Schmandt-Besserat said. "Nobody in archaeology had asked what 
came before arithmetic. Mathematicians had predicted that 
something concrete had to come before abstract numbers. The 
tokens were the concrete numbers. When writing begins, 
mathematics begins." 
 
She said it looks as if the same intellectual leap of symbolizing 
that led to incising the token shapes also led to thinking of 
numbers as something apart from what is being counted. 
 
A century after "pictographic" writing began, the curving symbols 
were converted to the more angular form created by square-
cornered styluses being pressed into clay. The result was the 
cuneiform (from the Latin for "wedge-shaped") writing that 
quickly swept the ancient Middle East. 
 
"What amuses me so much," Schmandt-Besserat said, "is that the 
people who made these inventions were accountants" - early 
members of what is not today's most vaunted intellectual group. 
"The accounting historians love me." 
 
 
