Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!cactus.org!ritter
From: ritter@cactus.org (Terry Ritter)
Subject: Seeking Testers: Penknife for DOS Final Beta (long)
Message-ID: <1993Dec9.073355.27402@cactus.org>
Organization: Capital Area Central Texas UNIX Society, Austin, Tx
Distribution: usa
Date: Thu, 9 Dec 1993 07:33:55 GMT
Lines: 166



 Penknife for DOS Final Beta


 Penknife is a 80x86 DOS-based email-oriented cipher and will be
 a commercial program.  The program is to be made available to US
 citizens willing to spend some time trying the program in a serious
 application.  The release version will be provided to those beta
 testers who provide a serious report of results (ciphering speed,
 problems, disliked features, desired features, etc.).

 This implementation is a DOS command-line program; it is not a
 flashy Windows program, nor is it intended for Unix.  It may not
 appeal to casual users.  Instead, Penknife is targeted at serious
 users of DOS, including businesses or individuals who need serious
 email privacy.

 Because participation in the beta will take some effort, see if
 the program seems attractive before applying:


 Penknife Features:

    1) Penknife will be a commercial cipher:  You know who made it,
       and who is responsible for fixing and upgrading it.

    2) Penknife is a small (about 40K, including help), reasonably
       fast (25KB/sec on cacheless 386/25; 100KB/sec on 486/50)
       program.  Upgrades are easily distributed by email.

    3) Penknife is a secret-key cipher whose security does not
       depend upon any great expertise of the operator.  (Some
       public-key ciphers allow the operator to use non-validated
       public keys, which may be spoofed, thus mooting any
       technical analysis of the strength of that cipher.)
            Secret keys can be easily established when people
       congregate for meetings or social occasions.  People who
       travel on business can distribute secret keys throughout
       a business empire.  Snail-mail or express delivery services
       can deliver secret keys without personal travel.

    4) The technical design of the cipher is available and has been
       disclosed on sci.crypt.

    5) A cipher on a stand-alone PC has a serious security advantage
       over a cipher on a multi-user machine.

    6) Penknife can encipher any sort of binary or text file.

    7) Penknife produces ciphertext in the form of ASCII text lines,
       which can be transported as email text on any network, or
       even imported into ordinary text-editor files.

    8) Penknife ciphertext has no structure apart from text lines:
       There is no announcement of cipher type or cipher start or
       cipher end.  There is just ciphertext, in lines, until done.

    9) Although Penknife produces standard DOS text lines as
       ciphertext, it automatically deciphers either DOS (CR LF) or
       Unix (LF) line formats.

   10) The Penknife cipher features unusual error-resilient operation
       (each ciphertext line starts anew).  Deciphered text may be
       useful despite transmission or storage errors.

   11) Penknife adds and reports an overall error-check CRC; this
       supports the transport of program binaries which should not
       be executed if damaged in transit.

   12) The CRC also detects the use of the wrong deciphering key.

   13) When deciphering, Penknife can process a file containing
       multiple email messages, complete with headers and signatures,
       and ordinary text, and automatically extract and decipher the
       ciphertext, while skipping headers, signatures, and text.

   14) "Skipped" headers, signatures and text can be "passed through"
       to the output file, for inclusion with the deciphered text.

   15) Under normal circumstances, Penknife "one-filename"
       enciphering overwrites the original file with ciphertext.
       Only high-level DOS operations are used; no risky FAT
       operations are involved.

   16) The advanced version of Penknife supports enciphered alias
       files, allowing a short non-secret alias to select a long
       (perhaps random) secret user key.  This means that a user
       only must remember one key for the alias file, instead of
       remembering each of the many secret keys in that file.

   17) Penknife alias files also support "dated aliases," indicating
       when the associated key was (or will be) placed in service.
       Key changes can be programmed months in advance and then occur
       automatically.

   18) Penknife alias tags and dates can be developed automatically
       from filename and file date.  When practical, this can
       eliminate the need to remember either alias tag or the
       original enciphering date (which could imply an old key).
       This would seem ideal for archiving ciphertext (which may
       be enciphered under an old key).

   19) The advanced version supports wildcard filename ciphering.
       Many files can be ciphered under the same key with a single
       command.

   20) The advanced version also supports directory-tree scanning,
       in which all sub-directories are scanned for filename match
       and ciphering.  This sort of operation is ideal for massive
       key-change or cipher-change ciphering.

   21) The advanced version also supports "append mode" ciphering,
       in which the result of all wildcard matches and their
       cipherings are accumulated in a single file.

   22) The advanced version also supports enciphered Penknife batch
       files, to allow substantial processing to be pre-programmed.

   23) Penknife includes menu-based help panel displays.

   24) Penknife does not infringe any known patents.


 First beta testing suggested a lot of new complex features, which
 required substantial new construction.  It is hoped that a wider
 beta will help build confidence in the many features and operating
 modes as they now exist.

 Participants in the "final beta" will be expected to have the
 desire to actually use the program to send and store data, as well
 as some time to spend experimenting beyond simple enciphering
 and deciphering.  They will receive a Commercial Demo version which
 may be distributed to friends and colleagues.  Participants must
 agree to not distribute the Advanced version and to not export
 either version.

 This is a final beta.  I am most interested in robustness and
 problems of actual use.


 Participants will be provided:

    1)  A binary copy of the Advanced Version of Penknife for DOS,
    2)  A binary copy of the Commercial Demo of Penknife for DOS
        (which can be distributed to friends and associates), and
    3)  A copy of the documentation.

 Those who provide serious reports on their usage experiences and
 impressions will get a licensed release version.

 Those who wish to participate should have the ability to UUDECODE
 binaries sent by email, and should send their request, including:

    1)  A statement that they are a US citizen,
    2)  Actual name, snail-mail address, and phone number,
    3)  Email address and city and state of email server.
    4)  A request to participate in the final Penknife beta,
    5)  A statement that time will be available for participation,
    6)  A statement that neither program will be exported,

 to:

 ---
 Terry Ritter   ritter@cactus.org

