Path: msuinfo!agate!ames!lll-winken.llnl.gov!myrddin!toad.com!gnu
From: gnu@toad.com (John Gilmore)
Newsgroups: alt.politics.org.nsa,alt.society.foia,sci.crypt
Subject: NSA FOIA request:  Secret Treaties and Agreements
Message-ID: <42035@toad.com>
Date: 10 Dec 93 00:45:23 GMT
Organization: Cygnus Support, Palo Alto
Lines: 159
Xref: msuinfo alt.politics.org.nsa:175 alt.society.foia:153 sci.crypt:21906

law office of
Lee Tien
1452 Curtis Street
Berkeley, California  94702
_______________ 
tien@well.sf.ca.us      
voice:  (510) 525-0817
fax:  (510) 525-3015


December 8, 1993

Reference:  TREATIES-NSA-1


Chief, Office of Policy
National  Security Agency/Central Security Service
Fort George Meade, MD  20755-6000
ATTN:  FOIA request

Dear Sir or Madam:

This is a request under the Freedom of Information Act [5 
U.S.C. $ 552(a)] on behalf of my client, Mr. John Gilmore.  

I write to request a copy of all agency records or portions 
thereof, in electronic or other form, which pertain, relate, or refer to 
treaties, pacts, memoranda of understanding or executive 
agreements between the United States and any foreign country or 
countries, which mention or concern cryptography, cryptanalysis, 
listening posts, intelligence or the products of intelligence, and 
which the United States signed, negotiated over but did not sign, or 
is in the process of negotiating.  This request specifically includes, 
but is not limited to, records pertaining to the BRUSA and UKUSA 
agreements and any similar agreements, as well as the IRSIG.  This 
request includes the treaties, pacts, memoranda of understanding or 
executive agreements themselves.

The BRUSA agreement to which I refer is identified in James 
Bamford's book The Puzzle Palace as a formal agreement of 
cooperation between the COMINT agencies of Britain and the 
United States signed in 1943.  The UKUSA agreement is identified 
as a similar agreement which came into existence in 1947 and 
includes a variety of countries including Japan.  The IRSIG is 
identified as rules and procedures known as International 
Regulations on SIGINT.  

This request also includes records pertaining to "supplementary 
agreements," such as a secret "supplementary agreement" briefly 
described by Bamford in The Puzzle Palace as a "secret 
supplement" to the "public Agreement for Cooperation on Defense 
and Economy, signed on March 29, 1980" between the United 
States and Turkey.  According to Bamford, Article II of that secret 
supplement provides for the sharing of all intelligence information 
produced at intelligence collection installations in the Republic of 
Turkey, "in accordance with arrangements determined jointly by 
the competent technical authorities of the two Governments."  

If the requested records are not in the possession of your 
agency, or if other agencies may also possess such records, I ask 
that you forward this request to any agency that you believe may 
have records responsive to this request, and inform me of such 
action.  A similar request has already been sent to the State 
Department, the National Security Council, the Justice Department 
and the Central Intelligence Agency.  In the alternative, I ask that 
you inform me of other agencies that you believe possess and 
control such records.  

As you know, the FOIA provides that an agency must make an 
initial determination of whether to comply with a FOIA request 
within ten working days of receiving the request.  Your own 
regulations provide that R[t]he Chief, Office of Policy, shall notify 
the requester of his determination within 10 working days of his 
receipt of the request.S  [32 C.F.R. $ 299.4(b)].  

If the records that you possess were originated or classified by 
another organization, I ask that your organization declassify them 
(if needed) and release them to me, as provided in the FOIA, within 
the statutory time limits.  If there is a conflict between the statutory 
time limits and some regulation or policy that requires you refer the 
records, the statutory requirement takes precedence over any 
Executive-branch regulation, policy or practice.  As you know, the 
FOIA provides that no more than an additional 10 working days be 
taken for such consultation.  5 U.S.C. $ 552(a)(6)(B).  If you do 
refer documents to any other agency, and they are not provided 
within the time limits, we intend to litigate on this point.

We also remind you that the long-standing rule that the FOIA 
"makes no distinction between records maintained in manual and 
computer storage systems," Yeager v. D.E.A., 678 F.2d 315, 321 
(D.C.Cir. 1982), has recently been amplified in Armstrong v. 
E.O.P., No 93-5002 (D.C. Cir., Aug. 13, 1993).  Any paper print-
outs of electronic records, such as e-mail, must include all 
information in the electronic record.  Assuming that there would be 
no loss of releasable information, such as written comments made 
on paper print-outs, we therefore ask you to release all responsive 
electronic records in electronic, i.e., machine-readable, form.

As you know, the FOIA provides that even if some requested 
material is properly exempted from mandatory disclosure, all 
segregable portions must be released.  [5 U.S.C. $ 552(b)]  If any or 
all material covered by this request is withheld, please inform me of 
the specific exemptions that are being claimed, and mark all 
deletions to indicate the exemption(s) being claimed to authorize 
each individual withholding.  If the (b)(3) exemption is claimed, 
please indicate the relevant withholding statute(s).

In addition, I ask that your agency exercise its discretion to 
release information that may be technically exempt.  As you know, 
the Attorney General on October 4, 1993, directed that agencies 
should administer the FOIA under a presumption of disclosure, and 
that information which need not be withheld should not be.

Please do not delay processing because of uncertainty about the 
request.  I have reasonably described the records sought.  If you 
have any questions regarding this request, please telephone me at 
the above number, and we can discuss your questions.  

I also request that fees be waived because Mr. Gilmore is 
deemed a media requester by your agency for FOIA purposes, and 
because the public interest will be served by granting a fee waiver.   
The requested information will contribute to "public 
understanding," because the public at large is interested in activities 
of government which affect personal privacy.  Sharing of 
intelligence poses the risk that the United States will secretly obtain 
information about persons from foreign governments which the 
United States cannot lawfully acquire at all, or without a court 
order.  Bamford suggests, for instance, that "it is possible for 
GCHQ to monitor ... domestic ... circuits of interest and pass them 
on to NSA through the UKUSA Agreement.  Once they were 
received, NSA could process the communications through its own 
computers and analysts, targeting and watch-listing Americans with 
impunity, since the action would not be covered by the FISA statute 
or any other law."  

Finally, Mr. Gilmore is well equipped to evaluate such 
information and disseminate it to the public.  Should there be any 
problem in this regard, Mr. Gilmore promises to pay up to $1000 in 
fees, and you should therefore begin processing of this request 
without fee-related delays.  

As provided under the FOIA, I will expect a reply within ten 
(10) working days.  

Sincerely,




Lee Tien
Attorney at Law
On behalf of Mr. John 
Gilmore
-- 
John Gilmore                gnu@toad.com  --  gnu@cygnus.com  --  gnu@eff.org
  ``This committee has not tried to determine whether the National Security
  Agency tendency to advance exaggerated claims of authority ... stems from
  conscious policy or the actions of individual NSA employees.''
The Government's Classification of Private Ideas, House Report 96-1540, p. 67
