Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!news.umbc.edu!eff!news.kei.com!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!senator-bedfellow.mit.edu!athena.mit.edu!burt
From: burt@chirality.rsa.com (Burt Kaliski)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: CRC & MD5
Date: 9 Dec 93 17:06:43
Organization: RSA Data Security, Inc.
Lines: 34
Message-ID: <BURT.93Dec9170643@chirality.rsa.com>
References: <5233@teslab.lab.oz.au>
NNTP-Posting-Host: chirality.rsa.com
In-reply-to: jacob@teslab.lab.oz.au's message of 8 Dec 93 04:52:53 GMT

In article <5233@teslab.lab.oz.au> jacob@teslab.lab.oz.au (Jacob John) writes:

   I would like to know the difference between CRC and one-way hash
   function (message digest function). Is MD5 an extension of CRC i.e
   more number of bits or digits. Is there any measure for the level
   of security acheived in using a MD5 function. How many bits in the 
   hash would make it computationally infeasible (in a practical purpose)
   to produce two messages with the same hash function. Also what sort 
   of processing power and time is required to generate a practical one
   way hash function(this is in view of whether the hash can be computed
   in the field).

Cyclic redundancy checks are not one-way; it is easy to find a message
with a given CRC, just add a multiple of the CRC generator to the CRC.

While no hash function can yet be proved one-way, some, like MD5 and
the Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA), are generally considered difficult to
invert. Trial-and-error seems the only approach for these functions.
If the hash is k bits long, then one needs to try 2^k messages to find
one with a given hash, and about 2^(k/2) messages to two with the same
hash, per the "birthday paradox." With 128 or 160 bits, either
approach is infeasible.

   From my understanding MD5 algorithm and code is availabe as
   anonymous ftp. Could someone direct me to the right location (path
   & file name if possible) where I can get hold of this. Also I would 
   like to kmow more about other one-way hash function algorithms 
   available for anon ftp.

rsa.com, in pub/md5.txt (also md2.txt); or see Internet RFC 1321 (or
1319).

-- Burt Kaliski
RSA Laboratories
