Newsgroups: comp.security.misc,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!news.kei.com!yeshua.marcam.com!zip.eecs.umich.edu!hela.iti.org!lokkur!scs
From: scs@lokkur.dexter.mi.us (Steve Simmons)
Subject: Re: Proposal for new login authentication method
Message-ID: <1993Dec12.180912.12713@lokkur.dexter.mi.us>
Organization: Inland Sea
References: <phrCHwnFq.6LC@netcom.com> <phrCHwp09.8JA@netcom.com> <2efc9gINN3gb@hancock.cc.williams.edu>
Date: Sun, 12 Dec 93 18:09:12 GMT
Lines: 34
Xref: msuinfo comp.security.misc:6844 sci.crypt:21941

95cms@williams.edu (Matt Schroth) writes:

>What if I am on your local subnet and can cause some collision at
>"just the right time?"  Conceivably, I could "hear" your password but
>the host you're logging in to would not, so that I'd have a password
>for later use, if you decided next to try another password.  It'd be
>nice if this sort of problem could be avoided somehow.

There is only one topology under which this could even theoretically
work.  You'd have to have your tap physically between the client (the
machine which generates the ethernet frame containing the password),
the server, and the client would have to be a fair distance from you.
At that point you'd have to be able to:

Detect the password-containing frame on the net;
Generate a short burst of "static" on the net before the frame has
  finished passing you, corrupting the frame so the destination will
  reject it.  This implies that the distance between you and the
  client must be sufficient that the static does not reach the
  client before he concludes the frame transmission; otherwise the
  client would detect a collision.  Note also that a frame containing
  a password is probably the minimal size ethernet frame, further
  increasing your difficulty.
Now you must generate an entire login sequence and place it on the
  ethernet before the client can regenerate the collided frame.  Note
  that "client" does not mean the actual host on which the person has
  typed his password, but rather the router which injects the ethernet
  frame onto the local net.

I won't say it's impossible.  I doubt there's any hardware which will
exist in the near future which can do it, tho.
-- 
"God so loved Dexter that he put the University of Michigan somewhere
else."
