Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!ulowell!MathWorks.Com!noc.near.net!das-news.harvard.edu!das-news!tlb
From: tlb@chardonnay.harvard.edu (Trevor Blackwell)
Subject: Re: Proposal for new login authentication method
Message-ID: <TLB.93Dec12171851@chardonnay.harvard.edu>
Sender: usenet@das.harvard.edu (Network News)
Organization: Aiken Computation Lab, Harvard University
Date: Sun, 12 Dec 1993 22:18:51 GMT
Lines: 34


> However, there was one more elegant and effective solution that was
> used.  It was a simple challenge response system.  The user was
> given a ten character password.  At logon time he was given a
> challenge of the form NN or NNN where each N corresponded to a
> position in the ten character password.  The expected response was
> of the form CC or CCC, the characters from the corresponding
> positions of the password.

Speaking of such techniques, the electronic door lock to our lab uses
a great one. The clear buttons (10) all have an LED single digit
display inside them, which can only be seen from directly in front of
the keypad. You press the 'start' button, and it randomly assigns
digits to the keys. Thus, anyone watching your finger as you enter the
combination gets no information.

Why can't they do this with instant teller machines? It'd be so easy.

I'm not sure that subsetting the password works all that well. If you
take say 4 out of 8 letters of the password each time, you only need 3
random subsets before you have a good chance of seeing all the
letters. And remember, if you only have some of the letters, you can
keep getting challenges until you see one you know the letters for.

So, in your head, what are the 2,6,13th letters of your full name (How
long did it take? Did you have to count on your fingers?)

--
Trevor Blackwell         tlb@das.harvard.edu          (617) 495-8912
(info and words of wit in my .plan)
--
--
Trevor Blackwell         tlb@das.harvard.edu          (617) 495-8912
(info and words of wit in my .plan)
