Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uchinews!att-out!cbnewsh!cbnewsh.cb.att.com!wcs
From: wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (Bill Stewart +1-908-949-0705)
Subject: Re: Naive Question on Trusting
Organization: NCR, an AT&T Company, Pleasanton CA
Date: Mon, 13 Dec 1993 09:37:35 GMT
Message-ID: <WCS.93Dec13043735@anchor.ATT.COM>
In-Reply-To: caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch's message of Fri, 10 Dec 1993 23:14:55 GMT
References: <CHuDwx.6Ju@bernina.ethz.ch>
Sender: news@cbnewsh.cb.att.com (NetNews Administrator)
Nntp-Posting-Host: anchor.ho.att.com
Lines: 41

In article <CHuDwx.6Ju@bernina.ethz.ch> caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch (Germano Caronni) writes:
   Does anybody know a successful solution if one assumes that the machine,
   or it's priviledged users are not to be trusted ? How much intelligence
   has to be provided in the final components of a communication link to
   circumvent the problem of trusted machines ? Like providing my VT100 or
   Xterminal with an encryption-device ;-)

Maybe I'm parsing your posting incorrectly, but it sounds like you're
asking if it's possible to carry on a trusted conversation with an
untrustable machine?  There are a few specific problems people have
worked on that let you use untrusted machines to solve problems
without giving away the details of the problem to the machine,
such as calculating discrete logarithms for numbers you want kept secret
(using a variant on a blinding protocol.)  But in general,
if you can't trust a machine, you can't trust it.  So don't.

If you're worried about the case where some of the users on your
machine can not be trusted, but the machine and the operators can,
you can use secure operating systems to protect you from other users.
The U.S. government gives ratings for systems with different levels of
protection; C2 is usually enough, and B1 or B2 give you security with
multiple levels (SECRET, TOP SECRET, etc.).  There are versions of
Unix, VMS, and a few other systems rated at C2, and a smaller number
at B1 or above.  You still have to be carefful with networking
software, and many of these systems are only rated for non-networked
configurations, because doing adequate security across networks is
much mroe complicated (e.g. how do your know you're really talking to
the right person.)


If you're only asking about the case where you can trust the machine
you're talking to, but not the local network it's on or not the
wide-area network, there are a variety of ways to do authentication
for logins, etc. to prevent eavesdroppers from rreading your password.
Some examples include Kerberos, challenge-response systems using
either your PC or a hand-held calculator or smart card to give you
numbers to type into your terminal, Encrypted Key Exchange, 
S/Key (which generates a different password each time), etc.
If you're also worried about your communication session being hijacked
or eavesdropped, you'll need an encrypted login or telnet program.

