Path: msuinfo!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!eff!linus!linus.mitre.org!linus!mbunix!eachus
From: eachus@spectre.mitre.org (Robert I. Eachus)
Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,alt.politics.org.nsa,sci.crypt
Subject: Re: National Crypto Policy study by NRC
Date: 13 Dec 93 15:31:54
Organization: The Mitre Corp., Bedford, MA.
Lines: 47
Message-ID: <EACHUS.93Dec13153154@spectre.mitre.org>
References: <2ds4pr$6qb@netnews.upenn.edu> <9312051049592.davesparks.DLITE@delphi.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: spectre.mitre.org
In-reply-to: davesparks@delphi.com's message of 5 Dec 1993 15:53:06 GMT
Xref: msuinfo talk.politics.crypto:1663 alt.politics.org.nsa:176 sci.crypt:22029

In article <9312051049592.davesparks.DLITE@delphi.com> davesparks@delphi.com (Dave Sparks) writes:

  > Third, did I understand you correctly in hypothesizing the development of a
  > SECURE crypto system, presumably more secure than anything currently
  > available, in A SINGLE EVENING of work?  And if it's not more secure, why
  > bother?

   There are a lot of factors involved in making a secure cryptosystem
secure.  Having said that, any system which is not breakable during
the useful lifetime of the protected information is secure.  In this
sense security is boolean, you have it or you don't. There are
probably hundreds if not thousands or millions of such secure systems
in use today.  (One example is the signals used by coaches in a
baseball game.  After the play the other team probably knows the
message, but the information is useless.)

   For systems which are not secure, there are relative degrees of
security, but today the "theoretical" discussions of relative security
for modern systems are for the most part just that.  For many uses
today, DES is not secure but it is useful enough for others.  With
RSA and other systems available today, however, security is basically
"Dial a level,"  and, the only meaningful comparison is to say that,
for example, triple-DES is equivalent to RSA with an XXX-bit key.
(Censored to avoid flame bait. ;-)

    Since many modern systems depend on mathematical properties for
their security, yes it is possible to come up with a system in a
single evening which, for example, depends on the assumption that
factoring large composite numbers of a certain form is hard.  Given
such a proof, it is just as secure as any other system which depends
on the same complexity assumptions.  If it also has the property of
being a member of a scalable family, as pointed out above there is no
issue of more or less secure...


					Robert I. Eachus

with Standard_Disclaimer;
use  Standard_Disclaimer;
function Message (Text: in Clever_Ideas) return Better_Ideas is...
--

					Robert I. Eachus

with Standard_Disclaimer;
use  Standard_Disclaimer;
function Message (Text: in Clever_Ideas) return Better_Ideas is...
