Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!news.kei.com!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!senator-bedfellow.mit.edu!news.mit.edu!warlord
From: warlord@MIT.EDU (Derek Atkins)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Basic Encryption Question
Date: 17 Dec 1993 09:55:46 GMT
Organization: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Lines: 40
Message-ID: <WARLORD.93Dec17045546@toxicwaste.mit.edu>
References: <931216.79553.STEVENBAKER@delphi.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: toxicwaste.mit.edu
In-reply-to: Steven Baker's message of Thu, 16 DEC 93 22:05:53 EST

In article <931216.79553.STEVENBAKER@delphi.com> Steven Baker <STEVENBAKER@delphi.com> writes:

    Would'nt just encrypting something twice make it unbreakable?


   Take for instance a ZIP file.  Lets say you encrypt it with a password and
   then you run it through PGP with a key.

    Is there anyway you could break that?

    I have some stuff at work that is very sensitive and I encrypted it with
    a ZIP password and then a Norton Encrypt on top of it.  Besedes being
    very cumbersome, I felt safe with that.

Not necessarily.  It depends on the encryption schemes.  For example,
if the scheme is some sort of permutation, then it may be a group
under composition, which means that encrypting with one key and then
another is equivalent to encrypting the plain text with some third,
unknown, key; but this means that it is not any stronger.

Also, you can only be as strong as your strongest encryption.  Some
people might refute this, but in general it is true.  However, if you
take two strong encryptions and use them together, you may actually
get something stronger (triple-DES is supposed to be an example).

With your Zip/PGP example, PGP is clearly the stronger encryption.  As
far as anyone knows, no one can currently break PGP using brute-force
methods, and no shortcuts are known to the public.  However, a person
would first have to break the PGP encryption, and if they had the
power to do that in a reasonable amount of time, then they can also
easily break the ZIP encryption.

I hope this helps, some...  I know it isn't all that clear.

-derek
--
         Derek Atkins, SB '93 MIT EE, G MIT Media Laboratory
     Secretary, MIT Student Information Processing Board (SIPB)
         PGP key available from pgp-public-keys@pgp.mit.edu
            warlord@MIT.EDU       PP-ASEL        N1NWH
