Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!not-for-mail
From: nrh@uunet.uu.net (Nat Howard)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Comments?
Date: 17 Dec 1993 12:59:36 -0500
Organization: UUNET Technologies Inc, Falls Church, VA, USA
Lines: 53
Message-ID: <2ess28INNllv@daimajin.UU.NET>
References: <16CA6FCB2.C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: daimajin.uu.net

In article <16CA6FCB2.C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu>,
 <C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu> wrote:
>   Anyone have any comments on the selection of a former head of the NSA as
>our defense secretary?  What two electronics firms did he work for, again?
> 
>   --John Kelsey

Caution: my memory is pretty imperfect about Bobby Inman and
cryptography in general about the time D-H key exchange came out.

Bobby Inman was the fellow who tried to get scientific publications to
agree to have cryptography papers reviewed by the government before
publication on a "voluntary" basis.

I was only peripherally interested at the time, but my memory is that
he was turned down on the grounds of principle, but that informal
review of that sort had gone on from time to time.  In fact a
puzzle-based version of secure key exchange was published *after*
Diffie-Hellman key exchange apparently because its author had kept it
quiet out of deference to the government.

I worry about Inman -- but I'm waiting to see what, if anything, he
says about it.  He has at least a nodding acquaintance with theoretical
cryptography and with public policy in this field.

For those interested, The scheme worked like this:  Alice and Bob wish
to establish a secret key to communicate.  Charlie can read, but not
interfere with their communications.  Charlie's computational abilities
are not much greater than Alice & Bob's.

Alice creates and publishes puzzles 1..N, each of which could be broken
by significant amounts of brute force.  Each puzzle is an encrypted
message that looks like this:

	{session key, key number, known text} K


That is, the session key, key number, and known text are encrypted using
(say) DES and a deliberately crippled key (say it's only 56 bits long :-))

Bob chooses one of the N puzzles at random, breaks it with brute force,
and sends Alice back the key number.  Alice and Bob can then communicate 
using the corresponding session key.  

The known text is encrypted so that I can know easily when I've
successfully broken the chosen puzzle.

Since Charlie doesn't know which puzzle Bob chose, he must break (on
average) half the puzzles before he can start decrypting Alice & Bob's
traffic.

As I recall, the work appeared in Communications of the ACM.  Sorry,
I don't recall the author.  This would have been about 1978.
