Newsgroups: alt.security,sci.crypt,comp.security.misc,soc.culture.portuguese
Path: msuinfo!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!uknet!pavo.csi.cam.ac.uk!rja14
From: rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (Ross Anderson)
Subject: Row in Portugal
Message-ID: <1993Dec18.154443.6353@infodev.cam.ac.uk>
Sender: news@infodev.cam.ac.uk (USENET news)
Nntp-Posting-Host: nene.cl.cam.ac.uk
Organization: U of Cambridge Computer Lab, UK
Date: Sat, 18 Dec 1993 15:44:43 GMT
Lines: 40
Xref: msuinfo alt.security:13836 sci.crypt:22077 comp.security.misc:7016 soc.culture.portuguese:7176

A recent article in `Cards International' (p4 of the 22/7/93 issue) reports
ATM problems in Portugal. Most of the banks there hold customers liable for
all transactions for 24 hours after reporting a card stolen; the largest (and
state-owned) bank imposes a 48 hour liability. This appears to contravene
EC directives that a cardholder's liability should be restricted to ECU 150.

According to the article, the Portuguese consumer association DECO and the
magazine Dinheiro & Direitos have been campaigning on this issue. Is anyone
on the net in contact with either of these organisations? We have quite a lot 
of experience of ATM villainy here and would like to compare notes,

Ross


PS there have been some nice frauds recently: 

*	three villains and a former bank employee in Italy harvested card 
	and PIN data by tapping the local loop from an ATM to the telephone 
	exchange; 

*	some banks in Paris have advised their customers only to use ATMs 
	with sliding fronts, as the bad guys have been putting false fronts 
	on cash machines to capture cards and PINs;

*	in New York, one large bank omitted to check account numbers and 
	available balances on credit card transactions through its ATMs 
	from 11 - 30 May this year, leading to $357,000 in transactions on 
	nonexistent accounts. This is now the US ATM record!

VISA's response is to issue 30,000 watermark cards to customers in Northampton,
England, in a field trial. These cards have a unique serial number embedded in
the strip; it is high-coercivity and laterally polarised in order to be both
onvisible to (and unalterable by) normal terminals. Safeways, a local 
supermarket chain, is installing readers which check these numbers (there is a
crypto checksum of the number and the normal card data on the mag strip).

If anybody gets hold of one of these, then I know a magnetics expert who would 
very much like to borrow it for a few days of tests! I understand a similar
system is used in Sweden; anybody there care to donate an expired card in order
to further the cause of scientific research?
