Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!nic.hookup.net!batcomputer!alchemy.TN.Cornell.EDU!seth
From: seth@alchemy.TN.Cornell.EDU (Seth Cohn)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto,alt.cd-rom
Subject: Question: Cd unlocking- is this a simple crack for it?
Date: 18 Dec 1993 21:46:32 GMT
Organization: Alchemy International
Lines: 55
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2evtno$mpl@fitz.TC.Cornell.EDU>
NNTP-Posting-Host: alchemy.tn.cornell.edu
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:22086 talk.politics.crypto:1712 alt.cd-rom:18336

Due to people misinterperting my posts: let me make myself VERY CLEAR:
1) I am against piracy.
2) I am beta testing a cd rom which unlocks, think I've found a hack
that make this disc very vulnernable and want to be sure.
3) Am asking people who know more then I do, if I am correct here.

[Last time I posted, someone bitched to adminstration,  that I was advocatin
piracy when in fact I was complaining about the disc in question (ZiffDavis
PC mag disc) - PLEASE READ and understand what I am asking here.] 

Given a Cd with the following properties
 1) Disc gives you the number of its version (so even with multiple
masters, I can easily pick out which version I have)
 2) not everything on the disc is encrypted, only the apps (.bat,.exe,.dll
etc... and some of the other files...) and some other files.
 3) Every encrypted file has a header on it, so it's trivial to pick out
which are encrypted and which are not.

Now, I thought about this, and it seems to me:
I can decompile the encryption routine to see what is used, DES or whatever
is being used, and at least identify it. 
 then, I can crack the code regardless of ANY system of counterkeys they
use, since I bypass all of it, and just take one file I already HAVE unencryted
(say some .dll file) and reverse hack it (take the file and the encrypted
version and solve for the keycode) then apply the keycode to the other
files.  I can identify the disc version, and the keycode for any given
apps, and by passing out a simple program, render that disc version
openable by anyone.

example: disc id: 1234  I hack the keycode to decrypt Excel using one
file I have sitting around (say some .dll) and find out that the
code used is 123SSSEXCELaa3b (a made up example) now, all I have to
do is put out a program which includes decryption algo, with a list of
disc ids and keycode ids for each app, and you out there with 1234 get
Excel off your own disc (which is identical to mine).

Question: 1) How trivial is 'back hacking' the keycode using the encrypted
and decrypted version of a single file?
2) Anyone see any real flaws in my logic?

3) any way to FIX the problem?  One thought is havign ONE big file
rather then all the little ones labeled sample.dl_ or readme.tx_
One big file with no 'real life' counterpart is less hackable, though
once I bought the 'unlock' the situation is almost the same.

As I see it the CD unlocking tech has a problem which seems pretty
unsurmountable given the limited number of discs mastered.

Seth

-- 
Seth Cohn -     Warning - I use CAPS to emphasize, not to yell   |If you read
email preferred         - I consider spelling errors and grammar |RUOW, Honk!
Net Junkie since 89       to be secondary to the meaning itself  |Orange Rainbow
[Space for rent]        - I take unpopular positions & get flamed|Spirits R #1! 
