Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp,alt.security.ripem
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc.edu!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Spoofing, Fraud, and the Informatition Highway
Message-ID: <strnlghtCIFow7.LAG@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
Date: Wed, 22 Dec 1993 11:21:43 GMT
Lines: 48
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:23923 sci.crypt:22193 alt.security.pgp:7582 alt.security.ripem:392


I notice that there's an industry committee advising on the Info Highway,
whose members include Apple and IBM.

In this context, perhaps Apple's new System 7 Pro's "Powertalk" component is
an indication of things to come. I just installed the new system on my
machine. It includes an integrated single desktop mailbox, and mail handling
and signing capabilities.

To use the mail signing capabilities, you generate what appears to be an RSA
key pair. You then print out a key certification form, which contains an
encrypted version of your public key. You take it to a notary public,
present 3 foms of ID including a photo ID such as a State Driver's license,
to prove you're who you say, the notary writes down the types, serial
numbers, and expiration dates of your IDs, and certifies your normal
signature.

You then mail the notarized form to the RSA Data Security certification
agency where they optically scan in your encrypted, printed key, and issue
you a certificate disk for your key, which you can then use to "validate"
AND activate the capability for you to "sign" (authenticate) messages.

Oh, yes, included in the encrypted public key you send in for certification
is an encrypted "test phrase" you make up, which you can use in future to
prove you're who you say to RSA on the phone--I suppose if you need changes
or some such.

The first certificate is free with the purchase of the Apple software--a
voucher for it is included. Additional certificates, key changes, or key
renewals are $25 a pop.

When you generate your keys, they are stored in a file type that cannot be
used to sign messages. When you get the certificate disk back, it not only
certifies your key, but also changes it to a "signer" file type that can be
so used.

Now some "wise guys" here will doubtless propose many ways to "spoof" this
system, but by and large it seems well conceived.

At least one public key encryption system, MacRipem, has now been designed
to accept your certified Apple signer key as its public key encryption key
(Powertalk provides signatures and authentication, but has left encryption
modules to third parties.)

David
-- 
David Sternlight         When the mouse laughs at the cat,
                         there is a hole nearby.--Nigerian Proverb
