Newsgroups: alt.security,alt.security.pgp,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!newsgate.watson.ibm.com!watnews.watson.ibm.com!yktnews.watson.ibm.com!rocky!lwloen
From: lwloen@rchland.vnet.ibm.com (Larry Loen)
Subject: Re: Governmental Prohibition of Encryption
Sender: news@rchland.ibm.com
Message-ID: <1993Dec22.192536.12442@rchland.ibm.com>
Date: Wed, 22 Dec 1993 19:25:36 GMT
Reply-To: lwloen@rchland.vnet.ibm.com
Disclaimer: This posting represents the poster's views, not necessarily those of IBM
References:  <CIEM8G.3JD@kilowatt.linet.org>
Nntp-Posting-Host: rocky.rchland.ibm.com
Organization: IBM Rochester
Lines: 95
Xref: msuinfo alt.security:13883 alt.security.pgp:7591 sci.crypt:22202

In article <CIEM8G.3JD@kilowatt.linet.org>, chris@kilowatt.linet.org (Chris J. Pilkington) writes:
|>      In the United States, it is unlawful to send encrypted messages over
|> the amateur radio bands.  Could this be construed as a violation of the
|> First Amendment to the United States Constitution?
|> 
|> Chris Pilkington
|> n2mcs % kc2fd@ferron.jvnc.net
|> chris@kilowatt.linet.org
|> 

Speaking as a hobby cryptographer and an amateur radio operator,
but as a non-lawyer who has listened to many on these topics,
my best guess is:

1.  Maybe you could make an argument for frequencies above 50 MHz,
  provided you restricted yourself to FM or other high bandwidth modes
  and even provided you lived (say) about 700 miles from any US border.

  Rationale:  Such transmissions would be domestic only.

  Legal Problems:  The US Government would use its full resources to
     fight you and would argue that, once in a while, when conditions
     were just right, encrypted traffic could cross the border so they
     still could legally restrict the traffic under reasoning similar
     to constraints on frequencies below and including 50 MHz.  Under
     rare conditions, a couple of thousand miles of transmission have been
     obtained, even with very high frequencies (UHF and microwave) and
     some amateurs have been amazingly successful bouncing usable
     signals off the moon, which has a range of half the planet, albeit
     at low bandwidth.

     More prosaically, there are amateur satellites with ranges of many
     thousands of miles, so even under the most optimistic proposal,
     the amateur satellite service would have to have a prohibition on
     encryption.

2.  For frequencies under and including 50 MHz, the transmissions would
  often, practically routinely, escape the continental US.  Transmissions
  to many places, such as Cuba and what remains of the old USSR can take
  place on a daily basis.  North Korea and Libya are also nearly next door
  for sustantial fractions of each day, even with pretty makeshift
  antennas.  Thus "encrypted" traffic supposedly between two US amateurs
  could handily be listened to abroad and even foreign/US transmissions
  would not evoke any special interest except if encrypted, since that 
  is already a major use of these frequencies.

  Note carefully that foreign nationals are permitted to either obtain
  a US Amateur Radio license or, with very little fanfare or trouble, use
  the radio license of their own, originating country while visiting the US.
  Thus, it would be positively trivial for a spy to be licensed.

  Rationale:  Under these ground rules, the prohibition against encryption
  (where you wouldn't necessarily know who made the transmissions) is
  obvious, even to someone who is a fairly strong first amendment hound.
  There really are some national security interests that even the general
  public would accept.  I'm not normally sympathetic to national security
  arguments (see my last 100 postings on crypto politics), but this is
  one that is pretty obviously real.

  Legal Problems:  The government would have very strong and obvious 
     arguments for what amount to very minor restrictions in the amateur
     radio service.  It would be too easy to abuse.

     You would also find yourself pitted against not just the government,
     but against the organized amateur community itself!  Why?  The above
     is such an obvious argument, that amateurs themselves will fight
     to keep the restrictions in place.  They have lived with an encryption
     ban quite effectively for well over 60 years and are not about to
     want to battle with foreign spies for what is already a very limited
     resource.

3.  General.  The right to own an amateur radio station is not on the same
   legal footing as owning a printing press.  The radio spectrum is finite
   and has certain practical consequences.  Especially in this area, you may
   expect these practical consequences to give rise to regulations prohibiting
   encrypted traffic in the amateur bands and for amateurs themselves to
   be very sympathetic to their continuance.

In summary, I would say you have a long, expensive, uphill struggle.  If
you win it, it could well be a pyrric victory for the amateur radio
operators.  As someone with a hobby interest in this subject, and also a
amateur radio station, I find no great need to combine them, other than
to chat on the air about encryption, perhaps, once in a very great while, 
which is not prohibited, since the contents of the discussion are in the clear.

Thus, I could argue about Clipper or anything else that bugged me; so I
don't see a big First Amendment issue, here.

Let it be; it's OK.

-- 
   Larry W. Loen        |  My Opinions are decidedly my own, so please
                        |  do not attribute them to my employer

   email to:  lwloen@rchland.vnet.ibm.com
