Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!nigel.msen.com!yale.edu!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: Grant@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL (Lynn R Grant)
Subject: Re: Goverment prohibition of encryption
Message-ID: <931223005321.080641@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Sender: Grant.CA1@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Date: Thu, 23 Dec 1993 00:53:00 GMT
Lines: 61

I believe there are a couple more reasons why the FCC forbids
encryption on the Amateur Radio bands.

Perhaps as important (from the FCC, not the NSA, point of view) as
thwarting spy transmissions is thwarting commercial transmissions.
Commercial traffic has long been forbidden on the ham bands.  So
if you have a ham radio in your car, it's OK to call your spouse through
a phone patch to say that you'll be late coming home, but it's not OK
to call the local pizza joint to order the pizza you're going to pick up
on the way home.

And it's OK to call a tow truck because your car is broken down, but it's
not OK to call the garage to set up an appointment to get your oil changed
next week.

(This leads to some interesting arguments when Amateurs provide radio
support for emergency services and crowd control and such at commercial
events such as races, or parades--are they providing safety and emergency
communications, which might be OK, or are they helping with the promotion
of the event, which wouldn't be.)

Commercial traffic is restricted because it takes business away from
commercial communication services, such as cell-phones, and because
getting a commercial station licensed is such an arduous task that
if the FCC didn't keep it out of the ham bands, all the commercial
stations would become amateurs.  (Perhaps not strictly true, but
when I recently tried licensing a commercial station, I was amazed
by the amount of work involved.)

If encrypted traffic was allowed on the Amateur bands, FCC couldn't
monitor the signals to tell if they were commercial or not.


Now, the idea of sending encrypted traffic and pretending that it
was test files might work; it is not unusual for stations sending
Morse code (actually International code) practice to send random
code groups.  If this caught the FCC's attention, the station would
get a letter from an FCC monitoring station that said, "Your station
was observed on this date/time/frequency sending encrypted transmissions."
(A partial transcription of the tranmission would be included.)
"Please reply in triplicate within 30 days, stating how this happened,
and what you will do to prevent this from happening in the future."

The station would then reply, saying that these were just code
transmissions, and if it could convince the FCC that they were
telling them the straight story, they would be OK.  There might be
problems, though, if the FCC didn't believe them.


Although sending encrypted transmissions isn't something most hams usually
want to do, the prohibition has caused problems in the past.  For example,
radioteletype operators were restricted to 5-level Baudot code transmissions
(e.g., Model 15, 19, 28, 32 Teletypes) until FCC monitoring stations got
equipment that could receive ASCII.  And spread-spectrum transmissions used
to be outlawed, execpt by a Special Test Authorization from the FCC,
because they were hard to monitor.


Lynn Grant
Grant@Dockmaster.NCSC.MIL
Radio N8AF (2m FM, 20/40m CW)
