Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!nwnexus!ole!rwing!pat
From: pat@rwing.UUCP (Pat Myrto)
Newsgroups: alt.security,alt.security.pgp,sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Governmental Prohibition of Encryption
Message-ID: <2962@rwing.UUCP>
Date: 25 Dec 93 12:36:21 GMT
References: <CIEM8G.3JD@kilowatt.linet.org> <1993Dec22.192536.12442@rchland.ibm.com>
Organization: Totally Unorganized
Lines: 112
Xref: msuinfo alt.security:13918 alt.security.pgp:7662 sci.crypt:22255

In article <1993Dec22.192536.12442@rchland.ibm.com> lwloen@rchland.vnet.ibm.com writes:
>In article <CIEM8G.3JD@kilowatt.linet.org>, chris@kilowatt.linet.org (Chris J. Pilkington) writes:
>|>      In the United States, it is unlawful to send encrypted messages over
>|> the amateur radio bands.  Could this be construed as a violation of the
>|> First Amendment to the United States Constitution?
>|> 
>|> Chris Pilkington
>|> n2mcs % kc2fd@ferron.jvnc.net
>|> chris@kilowatt.linet.org
>|> 
>
>Speaking as a hobby cryptographer and an amateur radio operator,
>but as a non-lawyer who has listened to many on these topics,
>my best guess is:

If you like the restrictions on Ham radio, fine.  No biggie.  EXCEPT
it is a precident that can be used on other finite resources, like
networks, etc.

The old bugaboo about a spy getting easily licensed is a strawman.
Since when does a spy get a license?!  He just transmits on freqs his
home country tells him to use, to hell with US regs.  If he is any
good, he will keep xmissions short and change locations.  I also
bet there are freqs set aside for various embassies, he can just
use those.  As long as the country they are assigned to doesn't bitch
nothing is gonna happen (and they won't if its their own spy using
them).

I think a lot of these were put in place as the world heated up
for WWII, for fear of the fifth-columnists, etc.

I wonder about the logic that use of airwaves is a privilege 'granted'
by the government.  They didn't make them.  They USUALLY 'give' space
to entities willing to pay a lot of money.  Sort of like charging for
the air you breathe.  If an RF signal is from pwr lines, or interference
it is OK, but if it has any useful info on it, it has to be CONTROLLED.

It is more of an example of how far the government will go to control
communications, if they can come up with a rationale to go along with it.

Most hams go along with it, because they don't want to lose their
license.  Most aren't rich, and the FCC can pull a license without
any thing like a trial.  Is it not true they can say, you license
is gone, and you are screwed?  I bet a lot of attitudes would change
if the restrictions were lifted, keeping only the requirements for
a license, to keep 2348230948239048239048 people not knowing what they
are doing from splattering up the band.

Gee, I wish I could get away with charging big bucks for people to
use a resource I don't own, but everyone owns...  and for most of
the spectrum, that is exactly what they do.

As time goes by, the top of the deemed useful spectrum goes up
in freq and the regulations go up right with it, as the FCC can sell
more space.  Soon they will be regulating light beams.  All car headlights
will require a license...

And as the money interests want more space, more is lopped off
the ham bands, too.  As one guy used to describe the hams with
commercial receivers and tranmitters, most are just listeners
with talkin' privileges, anyway.  How many make their own rigs
anymore?  Let alone do any development and discover new ideas?
Soon everybody will be in 1Khz of spectrum... at 1cm wavelength... :-)
Want a hunk of band you can have some freedom?  Cough up a few
million, buy the right people, fix ya right up...

I think the restrictions on controversial subjects, experimenting
with secure communication ought to go.  The experimentation it would
allow could benefit everyone.  Being forced to talk about the weather
or "Hi there - I got 50 watts, you got 100 watts, you drifting a
bit, its dry here - is it wet there?..."   While its nice to talk
gear, and talk just to talk and get a QSL card, if hams were allowed
to discuss issues of the day, experiment with varios ideas of
mating computers and radio, especially using surplus military radio
gear, making it do things the designers never dreamed of, it
would do a LOT for the ham radio hobby, not to mention new
developments.  Hidden xmitter hunts, and discussing weather
has GOT to get tiresome.  Seems the days of ripping into surplus
gear, converting it for ham bands, redesigning circuits, etc
has gone the way of the do-do bird.

Sure, PC cards and integrated circuits hinder a lot of that,
but devising new protocols, etc and mating radios and computers
do undreamed of things seems a fertile field.  As spectrum gets
tighter, one way to get space is shorter xmissions.  Like burst
xmission - perhaps it is possible to design some scheme where more
than one station can share the same freq, using bursts and collision
avoidance...  blast out some packets, when another xmitter blasts
its out, your circuitry would only pick up those meant for you.
Rather than jamming more CW/modulated signals.  Perhaps the idea
isn't workable, but timesharing is one way to make more use of
bandwidth.  But because it isn't a standard protocol, it would
be encryption, and VERBOTEN...

Protocols aren't standard until they are developed and debugged
and see some popularity...

About the only thing hams are allowed to do important is their
ability to maintain communication links when everything else is
down.  Especially stations that have battery powered portable
gear that is sensitive and puts out a good signal.  But the ham
community seems to be getting eased out of that role, too.

Do they even have anything like the old MARS networks anymore?

Mebbie I am wrong, but that is the way I see ham radio going....

-- 
pat@rwing.uucp      [Without prejudice UCC 1-207]     (Pat Myrto) Seattle, WA
         If all else fails, try:       ...!uunet!pilchuck!rwing!pat
WISDOM: "Travelling unarmed is like boating without a lifejacket".
            [Stop the Clipper/Capstone assault on privacy]
