Newsgroups: alt.security,sci.crypt,comp.security.misc
Path: msuinfo!uchinews!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!pavo.csi.cam.ac.uk!rja14
From: rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (Ross Anderson)
Subject: New Biometric Technique
Message-ID: <1993Dec27.112913.15624@infodev.cam.ac.uk>
Followup-To: alt.security
Sender: news@infodev.cam.ac.uk (USENET news)
Nntp-Posting-Host: nene.cl.cam.ac.uk
Organization: U of Cambridge Computer Lab, UK
Date: Mon, 27 Dec 1993 11:29:13 GMT
Lines: 47
Xref: msuinfo alt.security:13932 sci.crypt:22297 comp.security.misc:7183

We had a demo last week of a system developed by John Daugman at our 
zoology department across the yard. It recognises people by the patterns 
in their irises. I've seen quite a lot of other biometric systems, from 
fingerprint recognisers through voice to dynamic signature systems, but 
none of them even comes close to this.

Among its advantages are a very much lower fraud rate than any other 
biometric technique (including fingerprint recognition systems). The 
probability of identifying a subject wrongly is typically lower than 1 in 
10^{-20}; in my case it was about 10^{-34} (I have hazel eyes, and the 
lighter your eye colour is the better the current test rig works).

The input is a video picture of the subject in which the iris takes up 200 
pixels or more. This is subjected to a wavelet transform to allow position
independent feature extraction.

It turns out that the iris pattern contains a great deal of information, 
with over 170 degrees of freedom. It is also morphologically rather than 
genetically determined (so your two eyes have quite different patterns, as 
do the eyes of identical twins); and unlike the fingerprint, it rarely scars, 
it never wears down and it has its own self-cleaning mechanism. You can
easily distinguish between a living iris and a dead one (or picture of one) 
by observing the routine fluctuations in the diameter of the pupil.

In the prototype, you have to put your eye about 6 inches from the camera.
However, this is just a matter of the optics you buy.

John's research was funded by Sandia, whose interest was probably identifying 
people in the US nuclear weapons industry. However, the technology is so neat 
that there could be a lot of other uses. It may be significant that banks are 
just starting to put video comeras in all their ATMs; the average ATM 
nowadays has a 386 processor, which is quite enough to do the recognition.

A paper on it has just come out:

  `High Confidence Visual Recognition of Persons by a Test of Statistical
  Independence'

  JG Daugman

  IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence v 15 no 11 
  (Nov 93) pp 1148 - 1161. 

This is not a journal normally read by the security community, which is why I 
thought this short posting appropriate,

Ross
