Path: msuinfo!agate!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!swrinde!gatech!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!news.umbc.edu!olson
From: olson@umbc.edu (Bryan G. Olson; CMSC (G))
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Posting Illegal Files
Date: 28 Feb 1994 16:53:42 GMT
Organization: University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Lines: 47
Message-ID: <2kt7im$jrb@news.umbc.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: umbc7.umbc.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]


Here's one the cipher-punks will love, if someone hasn't suggested it
already.

Problem: How do you distribute copyrighted/obscene/libelous files
without getting into trouble ?

Imagine several dozen ftp sites each with a thousand files containing
100k of random bits each.  No dates or sources recorded.

Now suppose someone announces that there are 10 files, all on
different hosts, which xor together to form some illegal but coveted
file.  In fact, a lot of people announce outlaw files you can make by
different combinations of these random-looking files.

To distribute an outlaw file, you need one or two sys admins to agree
to post a random looking file.  You pick about 8 files from other
systems (you don't even need their permission), xor them together,
maybe xor with a truly random file, and finally xor with the file you
want to distribute.  You post the result, and the truly random file
if you used one.  If your file is longer than 100k, you break it up
into pieces.

The xor of all the files you used produces the outlaw file you wanted
to post.  You should probably wait a while before announcing the
availability of the file.  Hopefully in that time, someone has used
the files you posted as ingredients to other outlaw files.

Each random file can be an ingredient to several outlaw files.  Just by
looking at the files, there's no way to tell which files were produced
randomly, and which were produced to make certain outlaw files
available.

So is it illegal to post the random files ?  To post the messages
which tell what outlaw files can be built from what random files ?

There are some problems.  The posters and sys-admins can never be sure
that a file is indistinguishable from random.  If it turns out that 9
of 10 ingredient files were made by an IDEA key in output-feedback
mode, then the 10'th is clearly the illegal post.  Removing a random
file removes every file to which it is an ingredient.  The dates at
which files were posted could reveal strong clues as to who is
responsible for which outlaw files.

I'm not convinced it's a practical system.  Can anyone improve it ?

--Bryan Olson
