Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!hotmomma!brent!steve.allen
From: steve.allen@brent.uucp (Steve Allen) 
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: reputed ease of superencr
Message-ID: <10554.552.uupcb@brent.uucp>
Date: 1 Mar 94 00:15:00 GMT
Distribution: world
Organization: The Brentwood BBS Harrison, NY  914-381-1600
Reply-To: steve.allen@brent.uucp (Steve Allen) 
Lines: 47

There's something that has had me puzzled over the past few months:
Some people, discussing possible strategies for getting around the
LEAF in clipperphones, say, "Simply superencrypt your call." The
word that has me puzzled is "Simply."
Since it's a telephone, it doesn't have data i/o-- it only does
voice. What you have to do is: cut gaps in at least 8 teensy little
traces on a mass-produced pc-board (intercepting the digitized
voice) and run at least 16 wires to a custom board.  Since there is
no standard custom board, you have to build your own (at least 2,
of course). I'm not familiar with the technical standard, but if
you want full-duplex, it seems you need at least 32 lines to your
board.
Now you have to process your data. If you want to run a
contemporary algorithm on a self-contained uP board, you're
probably gonna have to rework the power supply of the phone to
accomodate the current drain of the added chips. Probably the best
bet would be a large GAL programmed to run triple-DES or IDEA,
interfaced with a uP. It might fit better in a separate box about
the size of a modem. (And you might want to add noise generators
and exponentiation routines, etc., etc.  After all, you have to
establish your own session keys, right?) Danger here: once the
gummint finds out you're building crypto hardware in any quantity,
it pricks up its ears and starts snuffling around in your corner
with its tail wagging.
If you run your 16 (or so) wires to a pc, the job is simpler,
but the bag hanging off the side of the phone is much uglier. How
do you get the signal in and out of your desktop? Parallel? Serial?
Once the hardware is in place, you've got to write the software.
Don't forget synchronization with the clipper chip, which could be
a big stumbling block-- hard enough for clipper, doubly difficult
for a circuit hanging onto its back.
The inevitable question is, Why not simply ignore the clipper
phone and design a complete system from scratch? (Which I hear
Phil Zimmerman is doing)
In fact, I bet it might be simpler to hack a V.32bis modem,
reworking the phone line connections so that the local phone goes
to a AD/DA converter and a GAL with DES or IDEA. The serial port
would be used to send passwords to and from the modem. The
forthcoming VFast standard will probably yield some hackable
modems, before the all-in-one VLSIs come online.
Or am I wrong, and it's simpler than all that?
-Steve Allen <73277.620@compuserve.com>
---
. QMPro 1.51 . Hi, I'm from the gummmint and I'm here to hepp yah.

----
The Brentwood BBS!  12 Nodes  (914)-381-1600
