Newsgroups: sci.crypt,sci.electronics,sci.misc
Path: msuinfo!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!newshub.nosc.mil!crash!nctams1!pnet16!n911
From: n911@pnet16.navy.mil (Etc Bowers)
Subject: Re: TEMPEST - Electronic Eavesdropping
Organization: People-Net [pnet16], NCTAMS EASTPAC
Date: Tue, 1 Mar 1994 20:36:34 GMT
Message-ID: <CM06Kz.6w7@nctams1.uucp>
Sender: root@nctams1.uucp (Superuser)
Lines: 117
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:24305 sci.electronics:79943 sci.misc:9841

Here's some more on TEMPEST, taken from the RISKS-FORUM 15.59 :


Date: Thu, 24 Feb 94 14:13:19 -0500
From: "Winn Schwartau" <p00506@psilink.com>
Subject: Van Eck Radiation Helps Catch Spies

Van Eck in Action

Over the last several years, I have discussed in great detail how the
electromagnetic emissions from personal computers (and electronic gear in
general) can be remotely detected without a hard connection and the
information on the computers reconstructed.  Electromagnetic eavesdropping is
about insidious as you can get: the victim doesn't and can't know that anyone
is 'listening' to his computer.  To the eavesdropper, this provides an ideal
means of surveillance: he can place his eavesdropping equipment a fair
distance away to avoid detection and get a clear representation of what is
being processed on the computer in question.  (Please see previous issues of
Security Insider Report for complete technical descriptions of the
techniques.)

The problem, though, is that too many so called security experts, (some
prominent ones who really should know better) pooh-pooh the whole concept,
maintaining they've never seen it work.  Well, I'm sorry that none of them
came to my demonstrations over the years, but Van Eck radiation IS real and
does work.  In fact, the recent headline grabbing spy case illuminates the
point.

Exploitation of Van Eck radiation appears to be responsible, at least in part,
for the arrest of senior CIA intelligence officer Aldrich Hazen Ames on
charges of being a Soviet/Russian mole.  According to the Affidavit in support
of Arrest Warrant, the FBI used "electronic surveillance of Ames' personal
computer and software within his residence," in their search for evidence
against him.  On October 9, 1993, the FBI "placed an electronic monitor in his
(Ames') computer," suggesting that a Van Eck receiver and transmitter was used
to gather information on a real-time basis.  Obviously, then, this is an ideal
tool for criminal investigation - one that apparently works quite well.  (From
the Affidavit and from David Johnston, "Tailed Cars and Tapped Telephones: How
US Drew Net on Spy Suspects," New York Times, February 24, 1994.)

>From what we can gather at this point, the FBI black-bagged Ames' house and
installed a number of surveillance devices.  We have a high confidence factor
that one of them was a small Van Eck detector which captured either CRT
signals or keyboard strokes or both.  The device would work like this:

A small receiver operating in the 22MHz range (pixel frequency) would detect
the video signals minus the horizontal and vertical sync signals.  Since the
device would be inside the computer itself, the signal strength would be more
than adequate to provide a quality source.  The little device would then
retransmit the collected data in real-time to a remote surveillance vehicle or
site where the video/keyboard data was stored on a video or digital storage
medium.

At a forensic laboratory, technicians would recreate the original screens and
data that Mr. Ames entered into his computer.  The technicians would add a
vertical sync signal of about 59.94 Hz, and a horizontal sync signal of about
27KHz.  This would stabilize the roll of the picture. In addition, the
captured data would be subject to "cleansing" - meaning that the spurious
noise in the signal would be stripped using Fast Fourier Transform techniques
in either hardware or software.  It is likely, though, that the FBI's device
contained within it an FFT chip designed by the NSA a couple of years ago to
make the laboratory process even easier.

I spoke to the FBI and US Attorney's Office about the technology used for
this, and none of them would confirm or deny the technology used "on an active
case."

Of course it is possible that the FBI did not place a monitoring device within
the computer itself, but merely focused an external antenna at Mr. Ames'
residence to "listen" to his computer from afar, but this presents additional
complexities for law enforcement.

     1. The farther from the source the detection equipment sits means that
the detected information is "noisier" and requires additional forensic
analysis to derive usable information.

     2. Depending upon the electromagnetic sewage content of the immediate
area around Mr. Ames' neighborhood, the FBI surveillance team would be limited
as to what distances this technique would still be viable.  Distance squared
attenuation holds true.

     3. The closer the surveillance team sits to the target, the more likely
it is that their activities will be discovered.

In either case, the technology is real and was apparently used in this
investigation.  But now, a few questions arise.

     1.  Does a court surveillance order include the right to remotely
eavesdrop upon the unintentional emanations from a suspect's electronic
equipment?  Did the warrants specify this technique or were they shrouded
under a more general surveillance authorization?  Interesting question for the
defense.

     2. Is the information garnered in this manner admissible in court?  I
have read papers that claim defending against this method is illegal in the
United States, but I have been unable to substantiate that supposition.

     3. If this case goes to court, it would seem that the investigators would
have to admit HOW they intercepted signals, and a smart lawyer (contradictory
allegory :-) would attempt to pry out the relevant details.  This is important
because the techniques are generally classified within the intelligence
community even though they are well understood and explained in open source
materials.  How will the veil of national security be dropped here?

To the best of my knowledge, this is the first time that the Government had
admitted the use of Van Eck (Tempest Busting etc.)  in public.  If anyone
knows of any others, I would love to know about it.

------------------------------

Comments and opinions are mine, and not official policy of the U.S. Navy

+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ETC Mark A. Bowers                                    n911@pnet16.navy.mil |
| Naval Computer and Telecommunications Area Master Station, Eastern Pacific |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

