Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!uknet!bradford.ac.uk!S.J.Shepherd
From: S.J.Shepherd@bradford.ac.uk (SJ SHEPHERD)
Subject: Re: Non invertible encryption
Message-ID: <1994Mar7.164135.15103@bradford.ac.uk>
Lines: 40
Organization: University of Bradford, UK
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL9]
References: <2knqem$o40@senator-bedfellow.MIT.EDU>
Date: Mon, 7 Mar 1994 16:41:35 GMT

Theodore Ts'o (tytso@ATHENA.MIT.EDU) wrote:
:    From: Colin James <cjames@dsc.blm.gov>
:    X-Mailer: SCO System V Mail (version 3.2)

:    Who is the academic / industrial (non NSA) authority(s) on the subject.

: Dr. Burt Kaliski, Ph.D is certinaly one of the authorities; so is
: Professor Ron Rivest at MIT.  Unfortunately, you may consider their
: views biased.  :-)

: If he really thinks RSA is so easy to crack, he should take some
: well-known public key, say one of RSADSI's PEM Public Certification
: Authority public keys, and demonstrate that he knows the factors of
: them.  That will get him immediate attention, I promise you!

Absolutely.  Place money where mouth is.

:    Knowledge of phi(n) does not always lead to factors of n.

: Only a few minutes thought is required to show that Dr. Kaliski's
: statement is true.  Given n and phi(n), where n=pq, it is trivial to
: find p and q.  In fact, it is so obvious that I can't fault Dr. Kaliski
: for not including the proof.  (I'm not sure it would even make it as a
: homework question on an undergraduate math course.  :-)  Considering that
: Payne was not able to figure this out, my respect of him as a
: mathematician has taken another quantuum leap downward.

So has mine!!!  He is making himself look jolly silly!

: are talking about exponential-time algorithms.  If Payne doesn't even
: realize this, he is completely ignorant of some of the fundamental
: principals of mathematic algorithm analysis.  Even if you grant that his
: "indefinite division" buys you a factor of two, this doesn't change the
: fact that his algorthm is still O(2^n).

ibid

SJS

