Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto,info.pem-dev,alt.security.pgp,comp.society.privacy
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!swrinde!sgiblab!barrnet.net!pandora!bolyard.wpd.sgi.com!nelson
From: Nelson Bolyard <nelson@bolyard.wpd.sgi.com>
Subject: Looking for lawyers who use encrypted/signed email
Reply-To: nelson@sgi.com
Organization: Silicon Graphics, Inc., Mountain View, CA
Distribution: usa
Date: Thu, 10 Mar 1994 00:34:34 GMT
Approved: list
Message-ID: <2llpuq$12p@fido.asd.sgi.com>
To: info-pem-dev@uunet.uu.net
Followup-To: sender
Lines: 33
Sender: root@pandora.sf.ca.us (MMDF administrator)
Nntp-Posting-Host: bolyard.wpd.sgi.com
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:24561 talk.politics.crypto:3730 info.pem-dev:793 alt.security.pgp:10031 comp.society.privacy:2117

Please forgive this rare cross-posting of mine.  
Please email any replies to me, and don't post them.  Thanks.

Sometime in the last 3 months, I saw a Usenet news article in one of these
newsgroups, in which the writer, a lawyer, was talking abount an
organization to which he belonged.  It was some kind of association of
lawyers, possibly a regional bar association.  They were trying to set
their own association's rules for the use of email with encryption (e.g.
PEM, RIPEM, etc - things that can do electronic signature and also protect
confidentiality of data).

He explained how lawyers were computerizing more and more, and how they 
needed to have some common conventions, and mutual understandings about
the strengths of digital signatures, etc. 

Anyway, at the time I read the article, I thuoght it was very interesting,
but I didn't save a copy because I figured I'd never have anything to do 
with them.  Now I find that a group of lawyers in a neaby city has invited
an associate of mine to come and speak to them about this very same topic.  
I'd like to provide my associate with a contact for the person/group behind
that article I read.  

I've already checked with "SEA", the Society for Electronic Access, and 
was told the article wasn't written by one of them.

Anyway, if you happen to remember this article, and have a copy or remember
the name of the group behind it, I'd really appreciate any info you can 
send my way.  Thanks.

-- 
Nelson Bolyard   nelson@sgi.com    Phone: 415-390-1919  Fax: 415-967-8496
Disclaimer: I do not speak for Silicon Graphics.
--


