Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!news.kei.com!yeshua.marcam.com!charnel!xmission!u.cc.utah.edu!not-for-mail
From: rb7656@u.cc.utah.edu (R Bryner)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Many-to-One Cryptosystem Question
Date: 10 Mar 1994 00:04:20 -0700
Organization: University Of Utah Computer Center
Lines: 50
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2lmgpk$2dh@u.cc.utah.edu>
References: <2lldbu$7bv@netaxs.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: u.cc.utah.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL0]

Steve O'Neill (soneill@access.netaxs.com) wrote:
: I've been following some of the discussions here over the past few weeks
: concerning ways of hiding the very fact that you're sending encrypted
: data(steganography). This got me to wondering if any crypto systems or
: algorithms exist which would allow two different data streams, encrypted
: with two different keys using two different transform methods, to produce
: the same encrypted output. This would let someone create two messages, one
: relatively innocuous and one possibly incriminating such that, when
: encrypted by the two different methods and keys would produce an encypted
: message whose true decryption could only be done by someone knowing the
: "real" key and "real" transform method.
Not possible, due to information theoretical requirements, unless YOU
EXPAND THE AMMOUNT OF INFORMATION IN THE SYSTEM.

This might take the form of salts aproaching the frequency of the
encrypted data.  I think the best thing to use as a salt is the bill of
rights, repeated over and over, or prehaps some great libertarian tracts,
oh whoops, that is the stuff I want to hide, being subversive literature
and such, and I would salt it with *RANDOM NUMBERS*, to increse the
security of the method:-)

: The advantage of such a system would lie in its ability to allow someone
: to show someone, a judge or jury, for instance, that, regardless of what
: some law enforcement official may say the encrypted message is hiding, its
: actual decryption will produce an innocuous message.

No, if they forced you to reveal the key, they would get out the bill of
rights and the random numbers.  You would not be able to fool them:-)

: I'm not aware of such a system, but then, I'm a relative novice when it
: comes to cryptography. Does anyone know if there is such a system, or if
: there is currently research being done to find such a system?

Yes.


: Incidentally, I'm not particularly interested in this question because I
: have some nefarious scheme in mind; it's just that it struck me as an
: interesting question.

I have a very nefarious scheme in mind.  Teeth to the self-incrimination
clause.  Wait, how would salting the bill of rights with *RANDOM NUMBERS*
do that, I have been so confused reciently.

Note, this would not allow you to deny somthing that *SOMEONE ELSE* turned
you in for, ie, if the crime had a victim, you could still be busted.

A lot of spooks might not like the idea of no more victimless crimes.

Roger, Mad Dog Libertarian and Psudo-Cryptographer, Bryner.
