Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!vnet.IBM.COM
From: tarnold@vnet.IBM.COM (Todd W. Arnold)
Message-ID: <19940311.113440.122@almaden.ibm.com>
Date: Fri, 11 Mar 94 14:25:29 EST
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: VOLATILE KEYS
Organization: IBM Cryptographic Facility Development
Disclaimer: This posting represents the poster's views, not those of IBM
News-Software: UReply 3.1
References: <5706.237.uupcb@digitec.co.za>
Lines: 36

In <5706.237.uupcb@digitec.co.za> Mervin Pearce writes:
>2) In the latest crypto-adapters from IBM they provide permanent backup
>battery power (5-7 Years life) for non-volatile protection of key
>storage but then also a jumper on the power routing to allow a user to
>convert this to volatile protection if required. Would you see this as
>confirmation that there is a differnce between the two modes of
>protection.

There's more to it than simply volatile vs. non-volatile.  The jumper
you refer to simply selects whether or not the keys are destroyed if
the adapter card is removed from the PC or workstation.  Regardless of
the jumper setting, all the keys (and other sensitive information, like
user profiles and configuration tables) are destroyed if the secure
module detects any kind of attack on the keys - for example, penetration
of the module, freezing, x-rays, etc.  You can NOT disable these features,
which are there to protect the keys from disclosure.  You can, however,
choose whether or not to destroy the keys on removal of the card (which
does not expose the keys).  This was done so you can load your keys at a
central site, then remove the card and ship it to the end user with the
keys in place.

As to volatile vs. non-volatile memory...   I certainly wouldn't store MY
keys in any permanent memory.  It seems to me that you'd be open to
attacks in which the memory is removed from the hardware, and then the
keys are either read out electrically, or the chip is probed to determine
its contents.  There are scenarios in which you can force a "volatile"
memory (RAM) to act as if it were non-volatile, so it will retain its
contents with power off.  Perhaps that's the reasoning behind what you
heard.  You can protect against those attacks with a sufficiently
sophisticated security module, though.  The freezing and X-rays I
mentioned above are two such attacks we protect against in the hardware
Mervin is referring to.

Todd Arnold
IBM Cryptographic Facility Development
Charlotte, NC
