Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: boucher@redwood.csl.sri.com
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Modified Jenkins PRNG source
Date: 12 Mar 1994 20:47:11 -0600
Organization: UTexas Mail-to-News Gateway
Lines: 61
Sender: daemon@cs.utexas.edu
Message-ID: <9403130247.AA26601@redwood.csl.sri.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: cs.utexas.edu

Sorry if this is a duplicate.  I appear to have had a transmission
error earlier.

My original post on this thread to sci.crypt of 3/11/94 quoted
Jenkins that the source code was 'now unpatentable and in the
worldwide public domain.  Please use it!'.  Colin James III claims
that those words "were duly retracted publicly on sci.crypt by Mr.
Jenkins" on 3/8/94.  I have not verified this independently, since
our newsfeed is usually days or weeks behind (note that I am
posting via email).

James does not feel that my post of 3/12/94 sufficiently retracts
my post of 3/11/94, because all it does is alert readers to James'
claims.

James is further offended by my standard disclaimer, 'The above
does not represent the opinions of my employer,'  which I usually
include with posts that are not related to my work.  James
misinterprets it to mean that my employer disagrees with my
retraction (posted 3/12/94).  If James would read a little more
carefully, he would discover that my disclaimer does not say
whether my employer agrees, disagrees, or partially agrees.  What
it says is that the accompanying post was either of a personal
nature, or was written on my own time (not as part of my work),
and that it should not be misconstrued as representing the
opinions of my employer.

For the record, my only interest in Jenkins source code was as
a curiosity.  I have no real use for it, and do not desire to
use, distribute, nor sell it.

James claims that the source code and 'unpatentable' comment
infringe the claims of US Patent No 5_251_165, "Two phase
random number generator", companies or individuals must be
licensed by the owner of the patent in order for them or their
employees to use, distribute, or sell the code.

I hereby publicly retract in total my two messages on sci.crypt
of 3/11/94 and 3/12/94 and duly state that those messages may
have infringed on claims of US Patent No 5_251_165, 'Two phase
random number generator.'

I hereby also publicly call on Colin James III to lighten up.  :-)
I would never knowingly infringe on patent rights, nor encourage
others to do so (witness the thread I started about 18 months ago
under the subject "Risks of Using PGP").  And I duly state that
the heavy-handed, legalistic tone of James' messages was really
not necessary.  Hey, I'm a nice guy!

If you're interested in using Jenkins source code, I suggest you
contact James' patent lawyer first.  He can be reached at:

Ancel W Lewis, Jr, Esq
Fields, Lewis, Pittenger & Rost
1720 South Bellaire Street, Suite 1100
Denver, Colorado  80222

-- 
Peter K. Boucher
--
DISCLAIMER:  The above does not represent the opinions of my employer.
