Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!news.umbc.edu!olson
From: olson@umbc.edu (Bryan G. Olson; CMSC (G))
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Dumb question: why not encrypt twice?
Date: 13 Mar 1994 00:58:39 GMT
Organization: University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Lines: 60
Message-ID: <2ltofv$dtn@news.umbc.edu>
References: <CM2Koo.H2s@marin.cc.ca.us> <2l52a6$ev8@watnews1.watson.ibm.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: umbc7.umbc.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

John A. Pershing (pershng@hawpub1.watson.ibm.com) wrote:
: [...] DES, which was cleverly
: designed so that you could double the effective length of the key
: (i.e., from 56 bits to 112 bits) by doing a triple encryption.  E.g.,
: if you have an 112-bit key 'A||B' (where 'A' and 'B' are the two,
: 56-bit halves), then:

: 	black = En( De( En( red, A ), B ), A )

: yields an "112-bit DES" encryption.  Note that there are subtleties
: here: you have to run the algorithm three times, even though you are
: only using 2 (56-bit) keys; you DECRYPT with the "second" key, and
: encrypt (twice) with the first key.  I don't pretend to understand the
: nuances of the DES algorithm; however, the people that *do* understand
: it say that the above method works and really gives you 112 bits of
: effective key whereas, e.g., simply encrypting once with each of the
: two keys:

: 	black = En( En( red, A ), B )

: isn't much better than simply using one key (I forget the actual
: numbers, but the second encryption only buys you a few bits of
: additional "effective key length" -- not worth the expense of the
: second encryption).

No particular cleverness was needed to make multiple DES
encryption work.  Multiple encryption should work with (just about)
any block cipher.  The system would collaps to some single encryption
if the cipher were a group, but very few mappings from keys to
permutations will be groups.

Note that if a block cipher is a group, the Tuchman
encrypt-decrypt-encrypt scheme also collapses to single encryption.

There seems to be an ongoing myth that the Tuchman scheme with either
two or three keys has some deep security property.  The only reason
for the scheme is to allow hardware implementations to be compatible
with one key DES by loading the same key in all three iterations.
There is no evidence that encrypt-decrypt-encrypt is any more secure
than encrypt-encrypt-encrypt.  Three different keys is probably more
secure than two.

The reason to prefer triple encryption to double encryption is
mostly to defeat time-space tradeoffs like meet-in-the-middle.
Such an attack on double-DES would require a huge amount of
memory, and is probably not feasible.

Finally, we can view multiple encryption as a single cipher.  Such a
cipher will have a strange key schedule, using some bits many times
before switching to a different group.  A well established principle
of cipher design is that the key bits should be introduced in a
complex interleaved order.  In most good block ciphers, all the key
bits are used in every two or three consecutive rounds.  Multiple
encryption generally violates this principle.  I believe a single
cipher designed to use a longer key can offer better security than
multiple encryption with smaller keys, for a given total key length
and processing effort.  One can, of course, construct weak ciphers
with any desired key length.

--Bryan
