Path: msuinfo!agate!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!swrinde!dptspd!ephsa!bbs
From: jburrell@ephsa.sat.tx.us
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Anonymous Remailing
Message-ID: <308@ephsa.sat.tx.us>
Date: 13 Mar 94 05:29:55 GMT
Sender: news@ephsa.sat.tx.us
Lines: 47


  With various incidents lately, one in particular demonstrates
that the current anonymous remailer systems are insecure. (Similar
concern was posted earlier on these groups)
  Some time ago, Timothy Mays, I believe, introduced the scheme
that this is based on. (For all I know, this could be exactly what
his idea was. I'm giving him credit here. I'm not even sure
it was Timothy -- this was months back)

  Anonymous remailers A, B, C, and D are online. User 1 encrypts
a message to user 2 and then places a header at the beginning of
the message. So we have:

::
Anon-Mail-to: Remailer_A, Remailer_B, remailer_C, remailer_D, user_2

---Begin PGP Encrypted Message---
...........
---End PGP Encrypted message---

User 1 then encrypts the message with remailer A's key. The message
is sent to remailer A. Remailer A decrypts the message and gets the
above. Remailer A kills its own part of the "TO" line, and places the message
into the outbound stream for remailer B. At some random time, remailer A makes
a connection with remailer B. Random garbage is sent, with any
messages destined for remailer B in the encrypted packet. (The connection is
made regardless of the availability of real data).

Remailer B takes the incoming data, decrypts the packet, and analyzes
it, just as remailer B did. The process is repeated as required, and so on.

The packets can be done any way that is wanted. (almost) One way would be
to generate a random number and use that for the length of the outgoing
garbage. The second would be to have a set size of the outgoing
packet, with data crammed into it. Since the packet is encrypted,
it doesn't matter.

If random latency is thrown into the system, it would be nearly impossible,
if not completely, to determine where a message came from, would it not?

Granted, this strategy is probably full of errors and oversights, but its
food for thought.



... PGP Public Key available upon request
___ Blue Wave/QWK v2.12
                                                                                              
