Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!news.umbc.edu!olson
From: olson@umbc.edu (Bryan G. Olson; CMSC (G))
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Combining different encryption routines
Date: 14 Mar 1994 23:38:44 GMT
Organization: University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Lines: 36
Message-ID: <2m2si4$pnu@news.umbc.edu>
References: <CMJ4qn.8sL@rahul.net> <16F78F4CFS86.C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: umbc7.umbc.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu wrote:
[...]
: it looks to me like encrypting first with DES, then with IDEA,
: then with DES again, or doing the reverse, would be pretty strong.
:  
:    One comment:  I'd be pretty careful about interspersing DES and IDEA
: *rounds*--DES appears to be pretty strong as it's designed, but if you
: want to change that design, you'd need to do some pretty in-depth analysis
: of things like cascade effect, high-probability differentials, etc.
:  

I said about the same thing on another thread, but no one
argued or agreed, so I'll make some comments here.  I think
interleaving the rounds is a better idea than multiple
encryption, although of course you should do all the
in-depth analysis you can.

A well established principle on block cipher design is that
the key bits should be introduced in a complex interleaved
order. Most good block ciphers use all the key bits in any
two or three consecutive rounds.  If we consider multiple
encryption to be a single cipher, we notice the key schedule
uses one subset of the key bits many times before switching
to a different, disjoint subset.  This is what makes
meet-in-middle attacks possible, and may simplify solving
for key bits in other ways.

I think a single cipher which uses a longer key is a better
basic design than multiple independent encryption.  While
one can design a weak cipher with any key length, I expect a
single cipher can offer better security than multiple
encryption for a given total key length and processing
effort because it can use a better key schedule.

--Bryan Olson

