Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!bounce-back
From: johnsos@daisy.ece.orst.edu (Scott Johnson)
Newsgroups: news.announce.newgroups,news.groups,comp.org.ieee,comp.lsi,comp.arch,comp.dsp,sci.crypt,sci.math,sci.electronics
Subject: RFD: comp.arch.arithmetic
Followup-To: news.groups
Date: 15 Mar 1994 17:54:57 -0500
Organization: Electrical & Computer Engineering, Oregon State University
Lines: 35
Sender: tale@uunet.uu.net
Approved: tale@uunet.uu.net
Message-ID: <comp.arch.arithmetic-RFD1@uunet.uu.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: rodan.uu.net
Xref: msuinfo news.announce.newgroups:4573 news.groups:98392 comp.org.ieee:2579 comp.lsi:3734 comp.arch:47991 comp.dsp:9922 sci.crypt:24726 sci.math:67282 sci.electronics:81107

This is a Request for Discussion (RFD) for comp.arch.arithmetic,
formerly comp.arithmetic.  At the suggestion of several readers of
news.groups (including Dave Lawrence), I have decided to change the
name so not to create a new second-level hierarchy, and to encourage
the use of comp.arch.* to discuss computer design/engineering issues.

Name:	comp.arch.arithmetic
Status: unmoderated
Charter:

Comp.arithmetic will be a forum for the discussion of implementing arithmetic
functions in digital computers (and other digital systems).  There are many
other newsgroups which share a peripheral interest with this topic (such as 
those listed above), but none which deals precisely with the topic of 
implementing arithmetic (and logical) functions on digital systems.  Thus, I
feel that this newsgroup would fill a void, as computer arithmetic is an
important field of study.

Comp.arithmetic will deal with the topic of computer arithmetic at several 
different levels, from the circuit level (how to build a faster multiplier, for
example) to the algorithmic level.  Both hardware and software implementations
of arithmetic will be discussed.  Any problem involving arithmetic calculations
is fair game, whether it be ALU design, cryptographic algorithms, digital 
signal processing, or anything else.

Due to the relatively high S/N ratio on other unmoderated newsgroups with a
similar mission, I see no need for moderation--thus, this newsgroup is proposed
as unmoderated.

This RFD will be active for one month, after which a CFV will be issued.  As of
now, a vote-taker is needed (when the CFV is reached).

/sj/

Follow-ups, as always, sent to news.groups
