Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!swrinde!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!netcomsv!calcite!vjs
From: vjs@calcite.rhyolite.com (Vernon Schryver)
Subject: Re: Modified Jenkins PRNG source
Message-ID: <CMq3A2.4uK@calcite.rhyolite.com>
Organization: Rhyolite Software
Date: Tue, 15 Mar 1994 20:22:49 GMT
References: <9403120641.AA20397@redwood.csl.sri.com> <OZ.94Mar12233345@ursa.sis.yorku.ca> <jktaberCMostM.BpI@netcom.com>
Lines: 46

In article <jktaberCMostM.BpI@netcom.com> jktaber@netcom.com (John K. Taber) writes:
> ...

>It is not clear what the patent covers, and I've been reading it attentively.
>In the recap of prior art, there is no mention of Marsaglia, which means to
>me that the search of prior art must have been incomplete.
>
>I comment further on this patent in thread "secure RNG", where I invite
>Colin James III to explain where my interpretations of his patent might
>be in error.

If you do not like the patent, then you really should not comment on any
defects in it in the hearing of Mr. James.

As I understand the patent process (which I'm sure I do not really),
letting the patent holder discover your objections to a patent lets the
holder fix it.  I've been told more than once to not talk in public about
prior art.  I also understand that it is a bad idea to point out to the
patent holder any failures to fully disclose how the invention works.

This suggests a novel strategy for patent lawyers and related creatures
using the novel (with respect to patents and lawyers) net.  First file a
completely, obviously silly patent, and then under another name cause lots
of discussion about the technical weaknesses of the patent, what needs to
be disclosed to make it more complete, what prior art exists, and what
techniques might infringe an improved version of the patent.  Then ask the
patent office to re-examine the bogus patent and get it fixed.  I've been
told that when a patent is re-examined, changes are a completely private
matter between the patent office and the patent holder.  (E.g. the 50
claims recently added to the LZW patent).  Is there something about that
strategy that would not work?

Note that I have not read this particular random number patent, and so
while it sounds unlikely to involve anything worthy of a patent, I have
no personal knowledge of it one way or another.  I also do not think Mr.
Taber is another name for Mr. James, although I think that Mr. Taber is
not helping anyone except Mr. James, albeit unintentionally.


The best defense those of us who are working programmers have against
bogus software patents is to hold those who file them in contempt.
We may not be able to change the laws, but we can at least deny the
fruit most software patent filers seek most, respect.


Vernon Schryver    vjs@rhyolite.com
