Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!swrinde!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!richardr
From: richardr@netcom.com (Richard L. Robertson)
Subject: Re: YASR (Yet Another Secure RNG)
Message-ID: <richardrCMqKqt.GtB@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
References: <9403151701.AA20291@redwood.csl.sri.com>
Date: Wed, 16 Mar 1994 02:40:04 GMT
Lines: 241


Like Mr. John K. Taber, I propose to discuss Colin James III's patent
5,251,165, summarizing my communications with Mr. James and including a
brief listing of case law citations from the U.S. Codes Annotated that
speak to Mr. James' ex parte threats of legal action.  This is primarily
from a layman's view of the law and should not be construed as legal
advice.  This will probably be boring to most net readers, but I feel that
the threats to free discussion posed by the actions of Mr. James compel
everyone to speak up.

-----------------------

I have been reading the message traffic on sci.crypt for some time
(occasionally contributing when I had something to say). I read the
message thread(s) on use of RNG's with mild interest but never bothered to
join in because of the IMO relatively simple level of crypto technology
proposed, much of which has been touched on in the published literature
and found wanting for serious purposes.  On the whole, this has been a
very informative and useful group to follow and many useful ideas are
discussed at all levels of sophistication.

I read as much of the published cryptography literature as I can
understand, and I also read many patents in the area of cryptography,
including software patents, in order to stay as informed and educated as
possible.

I was very surprised by the flurry of retractions that sprung up in the
discussion of RNG's that were apparently the result of ex parte
threatening communications from a Mr. Colin James III.  What caught my
attention the most was the tone of the retractions, almost as though the
parties had just been flamed with the legal equivalent of a blow torch.

I contacted Colin James via E-mail, and he graciously supplied me with a
copy of his patent # 5,251,165.  I was extremely curious to see what he
had done and especially curious to see if it was a broad breakthrough in
the area of RNG-based cryptography.  I found it to be unusually obscurely
written for a computer software/ hardware patent and unusually lacking in
background mathematical support for its claims of "greater randomness"
than other published technology, but it was comprehendible with careful
reading. Mr. John K. Taber (jktaber@netcom.com) posted a very clear (IMO)
analysis of the patent and technical issues that relate to the patent's
scope and coverage on Tue, 15 Mar 1994.

I sent an E-mail raising questions of prior art, his claims of "greater
randomness", what qualified cryptographers who had analyzed his invention
had to say, and what business justifications he could raise to support a
proposed licensing fee of $30K plus 2% of *retail* sales. His response was
short, essentially unresponsive and suspicious almost to the point of
paranoia. It included accusations that I had sent copies of his E-mail
messages to me to other parties who had reposted them to sci.crypt. (His
accusations are untrue)  He never attempted to provide me with
substantiation for his wild accusations. 

Even though he claims the right to republish E-mail sent to him, his claim
is that "I was not afforded the courtesy of being asked if private mail
could be so divulged". He is very inconsistent in his actions and
requests.

My reply to his response was to call him on his evasiveness. I also
suggested that he was out of line in his threatening manner of telling
people that they *might* be infringing.

By this time I had already discovered a cryptanalytic attack on his
invention that reduced the problem to cryptanalyzing his primary (or phase
1) RNG. The attack's running time is polynomial in the size of the
intermediate circular buffer and would probably run with adequate speed on
a 486 PC.  I informed him that because this essentially showed that his
invention provided no significant cryptographic strength over the primary
RNG that I no longer had any interest in his invention.

His response was to send me a message requesting that I not continue to
contact him.

I sent him the following letter consisting mostly of case law citations to
patent infringement cases that I developed from research at the local law
library. The citations are only from the U.S. Codes Annotated, are not
exhaustive nor do they include any discussion from relevant law review
articles.

John K. Taber quotes E-mail Message-Id: <9402201659.AA17492@
nyx.cs.du.edu> from Mr Colin James: 

     "I hope I do not have to defend my patent claims against Mr
     Bosch, or anyone for that matter.  But if I do, the venue is in
     US Federal Court, it is extremely expensive;  and once I start
     defending it I won't stop until I have recouped the cost of my
     lawyers, from the alleged infringers, and damages for the time
     I personally have spent on it. (Federal Court is the forum for
     all copyright, patent, and trademark issues;  civil matters
     don't go there unless the dollar amount exceeds $ 20,000.00.) 
     This should in no way be construed as a threat,

Most of the case law citations speak to the issues raised by this
threatening language.  Some of the citations support the common sense view
that any experimental use of patents and patented technology, such as
might occur here on sci.crypt, is *not* actionable infringement, but is
rather supported by the law to encourage the development of technology.


--------   Copy of mu last letter to Colin James III  --------

To:  Colin James III

Re:  Request to cease contact

Your request that I cease contacting you will be honored as long as
you refrain from threatening people with legal action for discussions of
cryptography on sci.crypt and other forums.  You probably should consult 
your patent attorney to have him explain your actual rights under the 
patent law, what constitutes infringement and what is an appropriate 
manner to demand that someone who *may* be infringing
cease their objectionable (to you) actions.

35 U.S.C.A. $ 271: Infringement of Patents

Note 74: Method Patents

Patent for method of process claim is not infringed unless *all* of the
steps or stages of the process are used.  Englehard Industries v. Research
Instrumental Corp, C.A.Cal 1963, 324 F.2d 347, certiorari denied 84 S.Ct.
1220, 377 U.S. 923, 12 L.Ed 2d 215

For a method patent to be infringed, it must be infringed in the exact
method described by the patent.  Plastering Development Center, Inc. v.
Perma Glas-Mesh Corp., D.C.Ohio 1973, 371 F.Supp. 939

There are similar citations for process patents.

Note 216: Making Patented Invention - Experimental Manufacture

Where alleged infringer had built the accused device only experimentally
and it had neither manufactured the device for sale nor sold any, the
accused device could not be relied upon to establish infringement.
Dugan v. Lear Avai, Inc., D.C.N.Y. 1944, 55 F.Supp. 223, affirmed, 156
F.2d 29

Note 224: Use of Patented Inventions - Experimental Use

Neither use of patented machine for experiments for the sole purpose of
gratifying philosophical taste or curiosity or for instruction and
amusement nor construction of infringing device purely for experimental
purposes constitute "actionable infringement".  Kaz Mfg. Co. v.
Cheseborough-Ponds, Inc., D.C.N.Y. 1962, 211 F.Supp 815

Experimental use does not infringe a patent.  Chesterfield v. US 1958,
159 F. Supp 371, 141 Ct.Cl. 838


35 U.S.C.A. $ 102  Patentability of inventions

Note 1: Construction

Patent claims must be constructed narrowly so as to avoid prior art if
such construction can be reasonably adopted.  Beckman Instruments, Inc.
v. Chemtronics, Inc., C.A.Tex 1970, 428 F.2d 555

Note 19: Fraud

In patent infringement litigation, trial courts are empowered and in fact
obligated to determine the presence of fraud, inequitable conduct, or
bad faith.  Milgo Electronic Corp. v. United Business Communication, Inc.,
C.A.Kan 1980, 623 F.2d 645, certiorari denied 101 S.Ct. 794, 449 U.S. 1066,
66 L.Ed. 2d 611

35 U.S.C.A. $ 285: Attorneys Fees

Note 4:

In enacting this section, Congress did not intend that recovery of attorney's
fees should become the ordinary or usual thing in patent suits.  Bruen v.
Haft, D.C.Pa 1951, 100 F.Supp 713

Purpose of this section is to prevent gross injustice, and award under this
section requires unambiguous showing of extraordinary misconduct.  Arbrook,
Inc. v. American Hospital Supply Corp., C.A.Tex 1981, 645 F.2d 273

35 U.S.C.A. $ 284: Damages

Note 31: Questions of Fact

What is a reasonable royalty recoverable by patentee in infringement action
wherein actual damages are not proved is a question of fact.  Hughes Tool
Co., v. G.W.Murphy Industries, Inc., C.A.Tex. 1973, 491 F.2d 923

35 U.S.C.A. $271: Infringement

Note 53:  Willfulness

More is necessary to support finding of willful patent infringement than
that the infringing acts were not inadvertent; court must determine that
infringer acted in disregard of patent, that is, that infringer had no
reasonable basis for believing it had right to do acts at issue.
Stickle v. Heublin, Inc., C.A.Fed. 1983, 716 F.2d 1550

Note 218:  Prior Art, Infringement By.

If an accused machine is substantially identical to prior art, there can be
no infringement of patent.  Galin Iron Works & Manufacturing Co. v.
Beckwith Machinery Co., C.C.Pa. 1939, 105 F.2d 941

Where accused device was constructed in accordance with the teachings of
prior art and differed from the claimed invention in the very feature upon
which patentability of the claimed invention was predicated, there could be
no infringement.  Kinnear-Weed Corp. v. Humble Oil & Refining Co., D.C.Tex.
1956, 165 F.Supp 143,  [extensive citation list omitted]

A patent could not be infringed by the practice of prior art.  Peerless
Equipment Co. v. Witt Miner, Inc.  CCA Ill. 1938, 93 F.2d 98, certiorari
denied 58 S.Ct. 611, 303 U.S. 641, 82 L.Ed. 1113


Nowhere in the statutes nor the case law could I find any law or holding
that either petitioner or respondent in a patent infringement suit could
get *any* recovery for the value of the time they personally spent either
prosecuting or defending such a suit.

So please cease your threatening comments and confine yourself to those
areas and actions where you actually have legal rights.

The kind of ex parte threats have a totally unnecessary chilling effect
on scholarly discourse and on the general advancement of knowledge.

A posting of apology and any associated explanation of what you were
*actually* intending to accomplish by you communications to sci.crypt
would at this point be very much in order IMHO, and would probably
go very far in repairing your image and relations to the portion of
the scientific and cryptographic community that communicates there 


<signed>
Richard Robertson             Internet:  richardr@netcom.com
Precision Software Products


---------------------------------------------------
Disclaimer:  Any errors in the citations are accidental and purely of
a typographical nature.




