Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!news.cerf.net!mvb.saic.com!MathWorks.Com!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!richardr
From: richardr@netcom.com (Richard L. Robertson)
Subject: Re: YASR (Yet Another Secure RNG)
Message-ID: <richardrCMrssJ.yB@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
References: <9403152205.AA12064@nyx10.cs.du.edu>
Date: Wed, 16 Mar 1994 18:31:30 GMT
Lines: 52

Mr. Colin James writes:


To: cjames@nyx10.cs.du.edu
Subject: Re: YASR (Yet Another Secure RNG)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
References: <9403152205.AA12064@nyx10.cs.du.edu>

In sci.crypt you write:

>In <9403152055.AA2335@redwood.csl.sri.com> boucher@csl.sri.com 
>(Peter K. Boucher) describes the meat of his algorithm and
>includes code fragments.

>I do not have a problem with combining these two additive 
>congruential generators, other than it is write-once C code
>at its ugliest.

To repeat what I accidentally mailed to Mr. Colin James (I sometimes hit the 
wrong command key and post instead of mail and vice-versa). My apologies
to Mr. James for inadvertantly sending him an E-mail.

Then why did you threaten Mr. Boucher with patent infringement if you have
no problem with what he presented?  Are you unable or unwilling to read
someone's code to understand what it is doing and just assume that anything
that claims to use an RNG infringes your patent?  Or do you just routinely
threaten everyone who uses RNG's with patent infringement just because you
see an RNG?

I feel that you final phrase is an example of an unwarranted ad hominem (?sp)
attack that has no place on Usenet.

[I apologoze to the sci.crypt community for this flame response to Mr. Colin
James, but I find his attacks threatening legal action very offensive in 
the manner in which the were done and for their lack of foundation. He has
performed in the manner of a school yard bully IMHO and deserves to be
treated for what he is.  I notice that he has never responded to any of
the substantive questions posed to him about his patent (cf. John Taber's
post). Is Mr. James another "David Sternlight"-type person who tries to
divert all discussion to minor or irrelevant issues while refusing to
respond to substantive questions, while simulatneously threatening people
with heavy duty legal expenses if they don't shut up?]

Richard Robertson                 Internet:  richardr@netcom.com
Precision Software Products


-------------------------------------
Slight disclaimer: this is not the *exact* text that I accidentally mailed
to Mr. James (because I didn't save the original file), but it does
express a very similar substance.

