Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!wupost!gumby!yale!yale.edu!newsserver.jvnc.net!news.cac.psu.edu!psuvm!sxl136
Organization: Penn State University
Date: Wed, 16 Mar 1994 21:25:06 EST
From: <SXL136@psuvm.psu.edu>
Message-ID: <94075.212506SXL136@psuvm.psu.edu>
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Survey-your opinions wanted....
Lines: 47

                                             v2
The purpose of this survey is to get the opinions of computer
professionals, general computer users, etc.
The opinions wanted deal with the use of cryptology. In particular,
the controversy over Clipper is of interest.
 With this in mind, keep Clipper at the back of your mind when
answering these questions.

When writing your answers, please try to answer the following
questions:
1) Do you use a form of encryption on a regular basis? How often,
if so, and in what way do you use it?
2) Do you feel that encryption is a threat to the stability of
our government? Why or why not?
3) Do you feel that encryption will empower organized crime and
endanger people? Why or why not?
4) Do you feel that the government will attempt to outlaw all
forms of encryption, excluding the Clipper chip?
5) Do you think that encryption should be unregulated?
6) Do you think that encryption could empower the individual over
the government and large corporations?
7) What good things could come about by the use of encryption, in
your opinion?
8) What bad things could come about by the use of encryption, in
your opinion?
9) Give reasons why Clipper is a generally good or is a generally
bad proposal.(In your opinion)
Please feel free to add any more comments/opinions besides
answering the questions above.

Although I have many good sources, I am welcome to any anyone has
to suggest. Especially ones that specifically deal with the
technical and ethical aspects of the Clipper chip.

And, most importantly, please let me know if it is okay/not okay
to use your name for citing in my paper.
This paper will be written for a class I am currently taking
at Penn State University.

Some notes about me:
I am a computer science major currently in my last semester
at PSU. My interests include AI, and programming in general.
Please feel free to e-mail me regarding any questions about
this survey, or my intentions with the data I am gathering.

One last thing: at the request of users, I could e-mail or
post the final paper, so you can see the fruits of my efforts. :)
