Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!swrinde!sgiblab!munnari.oz.au!newsroom.utas.edu.au!ccresources6h51.its.utas.edu.au!user
From: roger_sf@postoffice.utas.edu.au (Roger Fleming)
Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper,alt.security.pgp,alt.security.ripem
Subject: Escrow for DES??
Followup-To: comp.org.eff.talk,sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper,alt.security.pgp,alt.security.ripem
Date: 17 Mar 1994 06:27:55 GMT
Organization: University of Tasmania
Lines: 61
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <roger_sf-170394154028@ccresources6h51.its.utas.edu.au>
NNTP-Posting-Host: ccresources6h51.its.utas.edu.au
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:29622 sci.crypt:24786 alt.privacy.clipper:3400 alt.security.pgp:10370 alt.security.ripem:605

If something similar to this has already appeared, apologies; I already
posted v.1 but, being a newbie, I think it bounced.

Lotsa folks have written in to say that it isn't fair to claim the NSA has
a trapdoor in DES, without the slightest shred of proof - but I thought Adi
Shamir (of RSA fame) had found that proof in 1985, in the so-called S-box
symmetries. 

I could be dated here - my reference is from 1987 ("Mathematical Cryptology
for Computer Scientists and Mathematicians",Wayne
Patterson,Rowman&Littlefield). If I am I would love to hear the updates.
But, if this is new to anyone, here is the condensed "proof" that all is
not as it seems in DES:

DES is a fairly complex function, but the heart of it is the set of 8
S-boxes.
These map 6-bit strings into 4-bit strings in a highly non-linear fashion
by use of a look-up table. There is no known feature of the algorithm - in
terms of security, error checking, or efficiency - which would require the
distribution of output values in an S-box table to be anything but
near-random. In fact, with some reservations, it would seem that the less
structured the tables, the more secure the encryption. Further, all the
more obvious statistical tests indicate that the distribution _is_ highly
random (except for S4). 
It was a less obvious statistical property that Shamir discovered. If
instead of looking at particular bits, or overall bit patterns of the
output values, we look at parity of bit-weight (ie whether the number of 1
bits is even) we discover that the clustering to one side or the other of
boxes S1, S2, S5, S7 and S8 has a probability of occurring at random of
2^-35 (~ 2E-11). This leads to the possibilty of constructing Karnaugh
polynomials which describe these boxes with an improbably low number of
discrepancies from the actual boxes; the random hypothesis probability for
all 5 'Karnaugh' boxes to be this close to Karnaugh maps is 4E-25.

This is exactly the sort of mathematically manageable structure which could
greatly weaken security; the low probability of finding such a structure at
random and the lack of any overt motive for including it, very strongly
suggest it has been deliberately included to weaken the system - ie a
trapdoor. As of Patterson's writing in 1987, it was not known exactly how
or even if this structure could be exploited, but it has to make you more
than a little suspicious!! Quite possibly there is more deep structure
still undiscovered, for example what about boxes S3 and S6? 

Incidentally, none of this prevents DES being revamped with a new set of
S-boxes, and in fact the brute-force approach to cracking DES would be
_much_ less feasible if different users could specify and periodically vary
their own choice of S-boxes. This may not be practical in terms of a super
high speed hardware implementation, though.

A final observation concerning Clipper. With DES, the NSA (or US NBS,
anyway) released the algorithm but refused to release the design criteria,
which suspicious souls have always said was because of a trapdoor. After
circa eight years work, mathematicians like Shamir and Hellman seemed to
have gone much of the way to reverse-engineer the secret in an algorithm
which took around five years to design in the first place. Now with
Clipper, NSA won't even release the algorithm. Could it be that they're
scared - scared that a huge and expanding pool of human minds,
electronically linked like never before, would tear Clipper apart even more
quickly than DES? So, they've got a budget bigger than my country's
national debt. But maybe they aren't the Big Boys. Maybe we are - so long
as the data keeps flowing. It's a comforting thought.
