Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!transfer.stratus.com!galt.sw.stratus.com!cme
From: cme@galt.sw.stratus.com (Carl Ellison)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Survey-your opinions wanted....
Date: 17 Mar 1994 05:08:57 GMT
Organization: Stratus Computer, Marlboro MA
Lines: 108
Message-ID: <2m8ol9$8fp@transfer.stratus.com>
References: <94075.212506SXL136@psuvm.psu.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: galt.sw.stratus.com

>1) Do you use a form of encryption on a regular basis? How often,
>if so, and in what way do you use it?

Yes.  Daily, mostly for e-mail, sometimes for file encryption locally.

>2) Do you feel that encryption is a threat to the stability of
>our government? Why or why not?

No.  Strong encryption has been available to the American public for longer
than the country has been around and the country still here.  Citizen privacy
can't threaten a healthy country -- only a dictatorship.

>3) Do you feel that encryption will empower organized crime and
>endanger people? Why or why not?

Organized crime has had access to encryption for as long as honest citizens
have -- and criminals have other means as well to achieve privacy for planning
their activities.  Although I might wish organized crime would go away, I
don't see availability of strong encryption to them making any difference.
(See Kahn's "The Codebreakers" -- citing rum runners who hired people to build
them strong encryption systems in the 1920s).

>4) Do you feel that the government will attempt to outlaw all
>forms of encryption, excluding the Clipper chip?

I doubt it.  There are bureaucrats who certainly wish to do that.  Bobby Inman
once expressed this opinion (in about 1978, when he was at the NSA) -- that
cryptography should be like atomic secrets: born classified.  Congress slapped
him in the face for that desire, c/o the Computer Security Act of 1987.

>5) Do you think that encryption should be unregulated?

Of course.  It can not be controlled.  It is the product of individual minds
and with personal computers, it's far too easy to create and use.

>6) Do you think that encryption could empower the individual over
>the government and large corporations?

No.  I believe that claims of the cryptoanarchists are overblown.  There are
already secret channels of communication, secret bank accounts, etc. and the
powerful still hold and increase their power.  All it will do is permit a
certain amount of privacy which would otherwise be violated.  The war against
the powerful needs to be waged in other ways...probably with much hard effort.

>7) What good things could come about by the use of encryption, in
>your opinion?

Encryption is vital as we move to use wireless components in computation and
communication.  We have never learned to question at each (remote) procedure
call whether it's safe for some enemy to capture and read the arguments of the
subroutine call (for example), so we need encryption of those links to permit
distributed programming without requiring programmers to learn an intolerable
amount of new practice.  Cellular and wireless phones are already a hazard
(ask Prince Charles, among others), so we need encryption to permit us to
treat phones the way we learned to in the days of wired phones.  The
psychological cues when using a wireless phone are still those of the wired
phone -- like that of whispering, encouraging us to share intimate details --
and encryption would allow us to continue to respond to those subtle cues.

The military realized this before WW-II (see Welchman's "The Hut Six Story")
and that's why the Germans used the Enigma so heavily.  They had to have radio
to have Blitzkrieg -- and radio just isn't secure.  So -- while crypto was
clearly dual-use for the 4000 years of its history, the years since abaout
1930 have seen the military as the main user and some people who haven't read
history now believe that crypto somehow belongs to the military.  With
citizens using wireless components and communicating things of great value, we
will soon see a return to the prior balance, with civilian crypto probably
even taking the lead (in terms of number of units).

>8) What bad things could come about by the use of encryption, in
>your opinion?

Anything that could happen in any private conversation which people can have
without encryption.

>9) Give reasons why Clipper is a generally good or is a generally
>bad proposal.(In your opinion)

Clipper is generally bad.  As Whit Diffie said, it's a rancid idea.

Clipper's one good point, to me, is that it is the first time I've seen anyone
broadcast a back door entry with a message.  I had never seen a reason to do
that and the idea had never occurred to me.  I thank the NSA for sharing that
trick.  It is very useful for military communications in which you want a
central auditing agency verifying that encrypted communications carry
plaintext which conforms to established practice -- as do choices of keys.
Failures in those two areas were fatal for the Enigma users.

Aside from that, Clipper is bad for a number of reasons.  Worst of all, it is
insecure especially with respect to organized crime which I'm sure already
knows how to bribe people, steal files, impersonate people with access, ....
They already have the skills it takes to steal the master keys.  I doubt they
have the skills to gather a talented group of code breakers and set up a
facility to rival the NSA.  I could never recommend that a customer of my
company use Clipper.  It's too insecure.  Any mechanism which provides key
escrow is.

Clipper is also bad public policy.  If used, it suggests that the government
somehow has a right to read traffic which I, as a citizen, intend to keep
secret -- suggesting that I don't have the right to attempt to keep something
secret from the government.  That is too far down the road to a police state.
It is intolerable.

-- 
 Carl M. Ellison                                     cme@sw.stratus.com
 RIPEM MD5OfPublicKey: 39D9860686A9F075A9A83D49589C677A
 Stratus Computer Inc.                               TEL: (508)460-2783
 55 Fairbanks Boulevard ; Marlborough MA 01752-1298  FAX: (508)624-7488
