Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!sunic!ericom!eua.ericsson.se!euas09c35!ehsrbod
From: ehsrbod@eua.ericsson.se (Roger Boden)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.security.unix,comp.security.misc,comp.protocols.iso
Subject: One-way Encryption using DES
Date: 19 Mar 1994 16:48:20 GMT
Organization: Ellemtel Telecom Systems Labs, Stockholm, Sweden
Lines: 44
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2mfack$j2k@euas20.eua.ericsson.se>
Reply-To: ehsrbod@eua.ericsson.se
NNTP-Posting-Host: euas09c35.eua.ericsson.se
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:24861 comp.security.unix:4189 comp.security.misc:8652 comp.protocols.iso:5420

This is a question on how to build a one-way encryption algorithm using
DES. The one-way encryption algorithm should have the quality that a
small change in the input data should give a big change in the output.
Futhermore it should take as input at least 32 characters.

First some background.

In order to enhance the security in systems using passwords, so called
one-way functions are often used. In many systems they are used for 
safe storage of passwords. In recommendation X.509 (Authentication 
Framework) a solution is presented which enables both safe storage and
safe transmission of passwords. The encryption scheme looks something 
like this:

          ___
 userID -|   |            ___
     pw -| f |--p1-------|   |
         |   |       t2 -| f |---p2---
          ---        r2 -|   |
                          ---

The verifier has the initiator's password stored in p1-form. When the
initiator wants to authenticate himself he first creates p1 by encrypting
his userID and password with the one-way function f. Then he concatenates
a timestamp (t2) and a random sequence (r2) to p1 and encrypts the hole
package with the one-way function to get p2. The initiator now sends t2
and r2 in clear and p2 to the verifier. The verifier takes his stored
p1 and the received t2 and r2, concatenates them and encrypts the hole
package with the one-way function f to get p2'. If p2 and p2' are equal
the password was correct.

Now back to the problem. Since only a part of p2 is secret it's crucial
that the one-way function f has the quality that a small change in the
input gives a big change in the output.

For a number of reasons I'm constrained to using DES as a base for this
one-way function. Can anyone explain what alternatives there are and what
benefits and disadvantages they have. I would also be most grateful if someone
could give me some references to articles and/or books that cover this
matter.

Regards Roger Bodén


