Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!swrinde!sgiblab!cs.uoregon.edu!usenet.ee.pdx.edu!news.reed.edu!usenet
From: pwilk@reed.edu (The Cannibal ... i'll eat you up ... soul first)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Privacy and Cellular Phones
Date: 23 Mar 1994 21:53:34 GMT
Organization: Reed College,  Portland, Oregon
Lines: 375
Message-ID: <2mqdou$g19@scratchy.reed.edu>
References: <anonymous.2.764439716@med.umich.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: reed.edu
Keywords: Credit accounts, personal identifiers

Last-Modification: retrieving copies of this posting

Archive-Name: ssn-privacy

[I no longer have a way to read usenet news.  If you have comments on
the following, please send them to hibbert@xanadu.com.] 



       What to do when they ask for your Social Security Number

                           by Chris Hibbert

                        Computer Professionals
                      for Social Responsibility


Many people are concerned about the number of organizations asking for their
Social Security Numbers.  They worry about invasions of privacy and the
oppressive feeling of being treated as just a number.  Unfortunately, I
can't offer any hope about the dehumanizing effects of identifying you with
your numbers.  I *can* try to help you keep your Social Security Number from
being used as a tool in the invasion of your privacy.

Surprisingly, government agencies are reasonably easy to deal with; private
organizations are much more troublesome.  Federal law restricts the agencies
at all levels of government that can demand your number and a fairly
complete disclosure is required even if its use is voluntary.  There are no
comparable Federal laws restricting the uses non-government organizations
can make of it, or compelling them to tell you anything about their plans.
Some states have recently regulations on collection of SSNs by private
entities.  With private institutions, your main recourse is refusing to do
business with anyone whose terms you don't like.


                            Short History

Social Security numbers were introduced by the Social Security Act of 1935.
They were originally intended to be used only by the social security
program, and public assurances were given at the time that use would be
strictly limited.  In 1943 Roosevelt signed Executive Order 9397 which
required federal agencies to use the number when creating new record-keeping
systems.  In 1961 the IRS began to use it as a taxpayer ID number.  The
Privacy Act of 1974 required authorization for government agencies to use
SSNs in their data bases and required disclosures (detailed below) when
government agencies request the number.  Agencies which were already using
SSN as an identifier before January 1, 1975 were allowed to continue using
it.  The Tax Reform Act of 1976 gave authority to state or local tax,
welfare, driver's license, or motor vehicle registration authorities to use
the number in order to establish identities.  The Privacy Protection Study
Commission of 1977 recommended that the Executive Order be repealed after
some agencies referred to it as their authorization to use SSNs.  I don't
know whether it was repealed, but that practice has stopped.

Several states use the SSN as a driver's license number, while others record
it on applications and store it in their database.  Some states that
routinely use it on the license will make up another number if you insist.
According to the terms of the Privacy Act, any that have a space for it on
the application forms should have a disclosure notice.  Many don't, and
until someone takes them to court, they aren't likely to change.  (Though
New York recently agreed to start adding the notice on the basis of a letter
written by a reader of this blurb.)

The Privacy Act of 1974 (5 USC 552a) requires that any federal, state, or
local government agency that requests your Social Security Number has to
tell you four things:

1:  Whether disclosure of your Social Security Number is required or
    optional,

2:  What law authorizes them to ask for your Social Security Number,

3:  How your Social Security Number will be used if you give it to them,
    and

4:  The consequences of failure to provide an SSN.

In addition, the Act says that only Federal law can make use of the Social
Security Number mandatory.  So anytime you're dealing with a government
institution and you're asked for your Social Security Number, just look for
the Privacy Act Statement.  If there isn't one, complain and don't give your
number.  If the statement is present, read it.  If it says giving your
Social Security Number is voluntary, you'll have to decide for yourself
whether to fill in the number.

                        Private Organizations

The guidelines for dealing with non-governmental institutions are much more
tenuous.  Most of the time private organizations that request your Social
Security Number can get by quite well without your number, and if you can
find the right person to negotiate with, they'll willingly admit it.  The
problem is finding that right person.  The person behind the counter is
often told no more than "get the customers to fill out the form completely."

Most of the time, you can convince them to use some other number.  Usually
the simplest way to refuse to give your Social Security Number is simply to
leave the appropriate space blank.  One of the times when this isn't a
strong enough statement of your desire to conceal your number is when
dealing with institutions which have direct contact with your employer.
Most employers have no policy against revealing your Social Security Number;
they apparently believe that it must have been an unintentional slip that
you didn't give out your SSN.

Public utilities (gas, electric, phone, etc.) are considered to be private
organizations under the laws regulating SSNs.  Most of the time they ask for
an SSN, and aren't prohibited from asking for it, but they'll usually relent
if you insist.  Ask to speak to a supervisor, insist that they document a
corporate policy requiring it, ask about alternatives, ask why they need it
and suggest alternatives.


      Lenders and Borrowers (those who send reports to the IRS)

Banks and credit card issuers and various others are required by the IRS to
report the SSNs of account holders to whom they pay interest or when they
charge interest and report it to the IRS.  If you don't tell them your
number you will probably either be refused an account or be charged a
penalty such as withholding of taxes on your interest.

Many Banks, Brokerages, and other financial institutions have started
implementing automated systems to let you check your balance. All too often,
they are using SSNs as the PIN that lets you get access to your personal
account information.  If your bank does this to you, write them a letter
pointing out how many of the people you have financial business with know
your SSN.  Ask them to change your PIN, and if you feel like doing a good
deed, ask them to stop using the SSN as a default identifier.  Some
customers will believe that there's some security in it, and be
insufficiently protective of their account numbers.

When buying (and possibly refinancing) a house, most banks will now ask for
your Social Security Number on the Deed of Trust.  This is because the
Federal National Mortgage Association recently started requiring it.  The
fine print in their regulation admits that some consumers won't want to give
their number, and allows banks to leave it out when pressed.  [It first
recommends getting it on the loan note, but then admits that it's already on
various other forms that are a required part of the package, so they already
know it.  The Deed is a public document, so there are good reasons to refuse
to put it there, even though all parties to the agreement already have
access to your number.]


                     Insurers, Hospitals, Doctors

No laws require medical service providers to use your Social Security Number
as an ID number (except for Medicare, Medicaid, etc.)  They often use it
because it's convenient or because your employer uses it to certify
employees to its groups health plan.  In the latter case, you have to get
your employer to change their policies.  Often, the people who work in
personnel assume that the employer or insurance company requires use of the
SSN when that's not really the case.  When my current employer asked for my
SSN for an insurance form, I asked them to try to find out if they had to
use it.  After a week they reported that the insurance company had gone
along with my request and told me what number to use.  Blood banks also ask
for the number but are willing to do without if pressed on the issue.  After
I asked politely and persistently, the blood bank I go to agreed that they
didn't have any use for the number.  They've now expunged my SSN from their
database, and they seem to have taught their receptionists not to request
the number.

Most insurance companies share access to old claims through the Medical
Information Bureau.  If your insurance company uses your SSN, other
insurance companies will have a much easier time finding out about your
medical history.  You can get a copy of the file MIB keeps on you by writing
to Medical Information Bureau, P.O. Box 105, Essex Station, Boston, MA
02112.  Their phone number is (617)426-3660.

If an insurance agent asks for your Social Security Number in order to
"check your credit", point out that the contract is invalid if your check
bounces or your payment is late.  They don't need to know what your credit
is like, just whether you've paid them.


                                  Children

The Family Support Act of 1988 (42 USC 1305, 607, and 602) apparently
requires states to require parents to give their Social Security Numbers in
order to get a birth certificate issued for a newborn.  The law allows the
requirement to be waived for "good cause", but there's no indication of what
may qualify.

The IRS requires taxpayers to report SSNs for dependents over one year of
age, but the requirement can be avoided if you're prepared to document the
existence of the child by other means if challenged.  The law on this can be
found at 26 USC 6109.

                      Universities and Colleges

Universities that accept federal funds are subject to the Family Educational
Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (the "Buckley Amendment"), which prohibits
them from giving out personal information on students without permission.
There is an exception for directory information, which is limited to names,
addresses, and phone numbers, and another exception for release of
information to the parents of minors.  There is no exception for Social
Security Numbers, so covered Universities aren't allowed to reveal students'
numbers without their permission.  In addition, state universities are bound
by the requirements of the Privacy Act, which requires them to provide the
disclosures mentioned above.  If they make uses of the SSN which aren't
covered by the disclosure they are in violation.


           Why use of Social Security Numbers is a problem

The Social Security Number doesn't work well as an identifier for several
reasons.  The first reason is that it isn't at all secure; if someone makes
up a nine-digit number, it's quite likely that they've picked a number that
is assigned to someone.  There are quite a few reasons why people would make
up a number: to hide their identity or the fact that they're doing
something; because they're not allowed to have a number of their own
(illegal immigrants, e.g.), or to protect their privacy.  In addition, it's
easy to write the number down wrong, which can lead to the same problems as
intentionally giving a false number.  There are several numbers that have
been used by thousands of people because they were on sample cards shipped
in wallets by their manufacturers.  (One is given below.)

When more than one person uses the same number, it clouds up the records.
If someone intended to hide their activities, it's likely that it'll look
bad on whichever record it shows up on.  When it happens accidentally, it
can be unexpected, embarrassing, or worse.  How do you prove that you
weren't the one using your number when the record was made?

A second problem with the use of SSNs as identifiers is that it makes it
hard to control access to personal information.  Even assuming you want
someone to be able to find out some things about you, there's no reason to
believe that you want to make all records concerning yourself available.
When multiple record systems are all keyed by the same identifier, and all
are intended to be easily accessible to some users, it becomes difficult to
allow someone access to some of the information about a person while
restricting them to specific topics.

The market for stolen numbers increased in 1986, with the passage of the
Immigration reform law.  While making up a number is usually good enough to
fool the public library, employers submit the number to the IRS, which cross
checks with its own and SSA's records.  Because of the checks, illegal
workers need to know what name goes with the number so they won't be caught
as quickly.


                What you can do to protect your number

If despite your having written "refused" in the box for Social Security
Number, it still shows up on the forms someone sends back to you (or worse,
on the ID card they issue), your recourse is to write letters or make phone
calls.  Start politely, explaining your position and expecting them to
understand and cooperate.  If that doesn't work, there are several more
things to try:

1: Talk to people higher up in the organization.  This often works
        simply because the organization has a standard way of dealing
        with requests not to use the SSN, and the first person you deal
        with just hasn't been around long enough to know what it is.

2: Enlist the aid of your employer.  You have to decide whether talking
        to someone in personnel, and possibly trying to change
        corporate policy is going to get back to your supervisor and
        affect your job.

3: Threaten to complain to a consumer affairs bureau.  Most newspapers
        can get a quick response.  Ask for their "Action Line" or
        equivalent.  If you're dealing with a local government agency,
        look in the state or local government section of the phone book
        under "consumer affairs."  If it's a federal agency, your
        congressmember may be able to help.

4: Insist that they document a corporate policy requiring the number.
        When someone can't find a written policy or doesn't want to
        push hard enough to get it, they'll often realize that they
        don't know what the policy is, and they've just been following
        tradition.

5: Ask what they need it for and suggest alternatives.  If you're
        talking to someone who has some independence, and they'd like
        to help, they will sometimes admit that they know the reason
        the company wants it, and you can satisfy that requirement a
        different way.

6: Tell them you'll take your business elsewhere (and follow through if
        they don't cooperate.)

7: If it's a case where you've gotten service already, but someone
        insists that you have to provide your number in order to have a
        continuing relationship, you can choose to ignore the request
        in hopes that they'll forget or find another solution before
        you get tired of the interruption.

If someone absolutely insists on getting your Social Security Number, you
may want to give a fake number.  There is no legal penalty as long as you're
not doing it to get something from a government agency or to commit fraud.
There are a few good choices for "anonymous" numbers.  Making one up at
random is a bad idea, as it may coincide with someone's real number and
cause them some amount of grief.  It's better to use a number like
078-05-1120, which was printed on "sample" cards inserted in thousands of
new wallets sold in the 40's and 50's.  It's been used so widely that both
the IRS and SSA recognize it immediately as bogus, while most clerks haven't
heard of it.

There are several prefixes that have never been assigned, and which
therefore don't conflict with anyone's real number.  They include the
following patterns:

1.  Any field all zeroes (no field of zeroes is ever assigned)

2.  First digit "8" (no area numbers in the 800 series have been
    assigned)

3.  First two digits 73-79 (no area numbers in the 700 series have been
    assigned except 700-729 which were assigned to railroad workers
    until 1964)

Giving a number with one of these patterns rather than your own number isn't
very useful if there's anything serious at stake since they're likely to be
noticed .  Numbers beginning with 9 have never been assigned to individuals,
but some have been assigned to organizations and for other special purposes.
The Social Security Administration recommends that people showing Social
Security cards in advertisements use numbers in the range 987-65-4320
through 987-65-4329.

If you're designing a database, and want to use numbers other than Social
Security Numbers, you'd be better off generating numbers that are shorter
than 9 digits, so they won't be confused with SSNs.  If you have an existing
database using SSNs, and want to allow people to use a different identifier,
it's better to generate longer or shorter numbers or ones with letters
included rather than depending on these unused patterns.

The Social Security Administration recommends that you request a copy of
your file from them every few years to make sure that your records are
correct (your income and "contributions" are being recorded for you, and no
one else's are.)  As a result of a recent court case, the SSA has agreed to
accept corrections of errors when there isn't any contradictory evidence,
SSA has records for the year before or after the error, and the claimed
earnings are consistent with earlier and later wages.  (San Jose Mercury
News, 5/14, 1992 p 6A) Call the Social Security Administration at (800)
772-1213 and ask for Form 7005, (Request for Earnings and Benefit Estimate
Statement.)


             Some Legal Cases Currently (6/19/92) Pending

CPSR recently joined two legal cases concerning Social Security Numbers and
privacy.  One of them challenged the IRS practice of printing Social
Security Numbers on mailing labels when they send out tax forms and related
correspondence.  The other challenged Virginia's requirement of a Social
Security Number in order to register to vote.

Dr. Peter Zilahy Ingerman filed suit against the IRS in Federal District
Court in 1991, and CPSR filed a friend of the court brief in August '91.
The case was recently decided in favor of the IRS.  CPSR plans to appeal.

The Virginia case was filed by a resident of the state who refused to supply
a Social Security Number when registering to vote.  When the registrar
refused to accept his registration, he filed suit.  He is also challenging
the state of Virginia on two other bases: the registration form apparently
lacked a Privacy Act notice, and the voter lists the state publishes include
Social Security Numbers.



If you have suggestions for improving this document please send them to me
at:
                                       Chris Hibbert
hibbert@xanadu.com        or           Xanadu Operating Company
                                       1891 Landings Drive
                                       Mountain View, CA 94043


This posting is available via anonymous ftp from pit-manager.mit.edu
in the file /pub/usenet/news.answers/ssn-privacy.  It's also available
from mail-server@pit-manager.mit.edu by sending a mail message
containing the line "send usenet/news.answers/ssn-privacy" (without
the quote marks) as the sole contents of the body.  Send a message
containing "help" to get general information about the mail server.
--
The      _O_ "Life is not lost by dying. Life is lost minute by minute,
Cannibal  |   day by dragging day, in all the thousand, small uncaring ways."
  -=public key available upon request=-         -Stephen Vincent Benet
.
