Newsgroups: sci.archaeology,sci.crypt,sci.lang
Path: msuinfo!harbinger.cc.monash.edu.au!bruce.cs.monash.edu.au!trlluna!titan!tardis!jbm
From: jbm@tardis.trl.OZ.AU (Jacques Guy)
Subject: Voynich Manuscript Mini-FAQ
Message-ID: <1994Mar23.013032.25026@trl.oz.au>
Sender: root@trl.oz.au (System PRIVILEGED Account)
Organization: Telecom Research Labs, Melbourne, Australia
Date: Wed, 23 Mar 1994 01:30:32 GMT
Lines: 115
Xref: msuinfo sci.archaeology:9063 sci.crypt:25056 sci.lang:27210


There have been two or three inquiries last week about
the Voynich manuscript on sci.archaeology; someone
posted a defense of Neubold's decipherment on sci.crypt
not so long ago, and the topic also belongs to sci.lang.
So I wrote a truly *mini* FAQ which I am cross-posting
to all three groups.


              THE VOYNICH MINI-FAQ
              ====================


THE MOST MYSTERIOUS MANUSCRIPT: A SHORT HISTORY AND DESCRIPTION
---------------------------------------------------------------

The Voynich Manuscript, which has been dubbed The Most Mysterious
Manuscript in the World, is named after its discoverer, the American
antique book dealer and collector, Wilfrid M. Voynich, who discovered it
in 1912, amongst a collection of ancient manuscripts kept in villa
Mondragone in Frascati, near Rome, which had been by then turned into a
Jesuit College (closed in 1953). Wilfrid Voynich judged it to date from
the late 13th century, on the evidence of the calligraphy, the drawings,
the vellum, and the pigments. It is some 200 pages long, written in an
unknown script of which there is no known other instance in the world.
It is abundantly illustrated with awkward coloured drawings. Drawings of
unidentified plants; of what seems to be herbal recipes; of tiny naked
women frolicking in bathtubs connected by intricate plumbing looking
more like anatomical parts than hydraulic contraptions; of mysterious
charts in which some have seem astronomical objects seen through a
telescope, some live cells seen through a microscope; of charts into
which you may see a strange calendar of zodiacal signs, populated
by tiny naked people in rubbish bins.

The Voynich Manuscript has resisted all attempts at decipherment, and
there have been many. To quote David Kahn in his book "The
Codebreakers":

     There have been many more attempts that did not result in
     publication because the would-be solvers honestly admitted to
     defeat... In 1994, from among specialists in languages, documents,
     mathematics, botany, and astronomy then doing war work in
     Washington, William F. Friedman organized a group to work on the
     problem. Unfortunately, by the time they had, working after hours,
     completed the task of transcribing the text into symbols that
     tabulating machines could process, the war was over and the group
     disbanded....

        Is it, then, just a gigantic hoax, like the Cardiff giant or the
     Piltdown man or the fossils of Professor Beringer?... The work is
     too well organized, too extensive, too homogeneous... Moreover, the
     words in the text recur, but in different combinations, just as
     in ordinary writing. Even if it was a hoax, there seems to be
     no point to having made it so long.

                           David Kahn, "The Codebreakers", MacMillan,
                           NY, 1976, pp.870-871.


In 1976 Captain Prescott Currier gave a paper in which he showed that,
judging from the handwriting, the Voynich Manuscript must have been
written by at least two different people, and that the two texts
differed markedly in the frequency distribution of their letters and
combinations.

The Voynich Manuscript is now at the Beinecke Rare Book Library
of Yale University.


A VERY SHORT BIBLIOGRAPHY, CUT TO THE BONE
------------------------------------------

Mary E. D'Imperio  "The Voynich Manuscript -- An Elegant Enigma"
     Aegean Park Press, Laguna Hills, California. ISBN 0-89412-038-7
     Almost everything you would want to know about the Voynich
     Manuscript, and an eight-page bibliography should you feel
     inclined to hunt for more.

David Kahn "The Codebreakers"
     MacMillan Publishing Co, New York, 1976

Wilfrid Blunt & Sandra Raphael "The Illustrated Herbal"
     Frances Lincoln Publishers, London. ISBN 0-906459-02-8
     For two pages of the herbal part of the Voynich Manuscript
     reproduced full-scale in colour (pp.90-91)



WHAT OF VOYNICH@RAND.ORG?
-------------------------

It is a mailing list set up by Jim Gillogly in December 1991. To quote
him:

    The plan is to use this mailing list to coordinate a new
    investigation of the Manuscript.
 
    Send mail to voynich-request@rand.org to get off of it again or if
    you're having distribution problems or problems with the FTP
    archives.

    Send substantive mail to voynich@rand.org and it'll get to the whole
    group.


It was very, very active at first: I have half a megabyte of e-mail
exchanges archived, most of which occurred during January 1992.  I fear
that too many of us were looking forward to see the cracking of the Most
Decipherment-Resistant Manuscript In The World and dropped out when that
looked like too distant a prospect.

There is much stuff about the Voynich Manuscript in a directory pub/voynich
which you can get by anonymous ftp to rand.org (192.5.14.33), including
two black-and-white GIFs.

