Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.fan.david-sternlight
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!phr
From: phr@netcom.com (Paul Rubin)
Subject: Re: I concede the key length/cracking point.
Message-ID: <phrCn7ry6.E37@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
References: <strnlghtCn71AG.JoI@netcom.com> <mpdCn76n4.65A@netcom.com> <strnlghtCn78C6.L5H@netcom.com>
Date: Fri, 25 Mar 1994 09:34:54 GMT
Lines: 85
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:25068 comp.org.eff.talk:30351 alt.fan.david-sternlight:799

In article <strnlghtCn78C6.L5H@netcom.com>,
David Sternlight <david@sternlight.com> wrote:

>Apple's AOCE is hard-wired to 512bit RSA keys. That's not secure against
>rich cryptologic organizations. If one specifies 1024 bit keys in RIPEM or
>PGP one is better off.

512 bit RSA is eligible for expedited export approval from the State
Dept, as are the RC2/RC4 conventional ciphers with 40 bit keys.  40
bit conventional keys are pathetic, but longer keys are harder to get
approved, even 56 bit DES which we know the NSA can break--but apparently
not conveniently enough for their satisfaction.  The logical conclusion is
that the NSA can not only break 512 bit RSA keys, but it can break
them easily.  No self-respecting conspiracy theorist should doubt this
for a minute.

>For just about the longest keys routinely available, 1024 bits, he says:
>"At a European Institute for System Security workshop, the participants
>agreed that a 1024 bit modulus should be sufficient for long-term secrets
>for the next 10 years." This was published by Springer Verlag in 1992 so it
>probably represents unclassified state-of-the-art in 1991. "However, some
>speakers warned: 'Although the participants of this workshop feel best
>qualified in their respective areas, this statement should be taken with
>caution.'"

1) current versions of PGP offer 1280 bit keys.  You can increase
this up to 30k or so (maybe more) just by changing a #define constant
and recompiling the program.  This slows it down a lot, of course.

2) At last year's RSA data security conference, both Ron Rivest and
Martin Hellman spoke on the topic, discussing improvements in
factoring algorithms as well as hardware.  I think Hellman said that
if you really wanted to protect secrets into the next century with
RSA, you should use 8 kilobit keys.  He also said you should do triple
DES with three independent keys rather than two keys.  I got a similar
feeling about RSA key lengths from Rivest's talk, though he didn't
actually mention such large numbers.

3) I've heard from credible sources that as of the early 1980's, the
US military was encrypting classified data with RSA, with moduli of
about 3000 bits, and with the public exponent chosen at random in this
3000 bit range, subject to a few conditions.  Civilian RSA programs
including PGP seem to always use small constants as public exponents
because this makes encryption and signature checking run a lot faster.
At least some theorists at the time seemed to think large random
exponents gained you some security.  I don't know what the
justification was, or whether it's still believed.

>So I'm back where I was, but with respect to the RSA keys used in PGP,
>Ripem, etc. rather than the individual message keys using IDEA and TDES:
>with the possible exception of the longest keys, there's at least some
>reason to speculate that rich, smart cryptologic organizations can break
>such publicly available systems as PGP and RIPEM for cases worth putting the
>resources to. 

There's reason to speculate just about anything.  The IDEA and TDES
keys are too large to break by brute force, but cryptanalysis (sneak
attacks) may still be possible.  Another recent post here had an NSA
rep insinuating that they could break 1024 bit PGP keys but 2048 bit
keys would be beyond them.  (I don't believe the insinuation).

>Of course this is even better for such cryptologic
>organizations, since once they've broken the private RSA key they can read
>all traffic, past and future using that key-pair.

This depends on the nature of the break.  There might be some attack
against RSA that reveals the contents of a single message without
factoring the modulus, and that runs faster than factoring the
modulus.  Such an attack might make multi-kilobit RSA encryption
vulnerable even if factoring such large numbers is intractable.  But
all the KNOWN attacks are equivalent to factoring the modulus.  This
does give a reason to use Diffie-Hellman instead of RSA-- breaking a
Diffie-Hellman session gives you only the contents of that session,
not all the past and future ones.

A true paranoid would not use any ciphers except one-time pads
generated from physical sources of randomness, but even given
perfectly impenetrable ciphers, there are always moles, hidden
microphones, tempest attacks, rubber hose cryptanalysis, etc.  The CIA
is even known to have spent megabucks on ESP experiments in the hopes
of learning how to get your data directly out of your brain.  (Why
not, it sounds like a much more harmless waste of money than a lot of
other things the government does).  There is no such thing as absolute
information security even for a short time, if a rich and ruthless
enemy wants your data badly enough.
