Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!ncrgw2.ncr.com!ncrhub2!ncrcae!ashaver!al.shaver
From: al.shaver@ClemsonSC.NCR.COM (Al Shaver)
Subject: Re: Can we *douse* the Sternlight???
Message-ID: <al.shaver.8.000BBEC3@ClemsonSC.NCR.COM>
Lines: 88
Sender: news@ncrcae.ColumbiaSC.NCR.COM (news)
Organization: AT&T Global Information Solutions, WPD-Clemson
X-Newsreader: Trumpet for Windows [Version 1.0 Rev Final Beta #10]
References:  <41303@mindlink.bc.ca>
Date: Fri, 25 Mar 1994 16:44:37 GMT

In article <41303@mindlink.bc.ca> Ron_McKinnon@mindlink.bc.ca (Ron McKinnon) writes:

>As far as I'm concerned David Sternlight can post all he wants. I

I agree completely.  I never asked *anyone* not to post.

>thank him for taking the time to be so involved in these issues.

I also think these are issues that everyone should be concerned about and 
discussing - otherwise I wouldn't bother reading the group(s).

>Though I do not necessarily agree with his views, I welcome his
>input and consider it a valuable counter point to the general
>back-slapping among the converted. And, yes he does get a bit
>cranky from time to time, but considering the flames that he
>attracts, which I feel are generally out of proportion to
>whatever instigated them, I feel he is rather circumspect in
>his response.

I admit the value of devil's advocacy in almost any debate - as one person has 
pointed out to me the "nay-sayers" do serve a function - but it is my opinion 
( and I present this as an OPINION - I could be wrong, it wouldn't be the 
first time) that Mr. Sternlight's posts derail some threads to the extent that 
extensive time is spent arguing with him, and move far away from intelligent 
discussion that fosters genuine knowledge of the subjects and issues involved.

I also concede that the flames resulting from any one of Mr. Sternlight's 
posts (or indeed a whole thread) may seem an excessive reaction, but my post 
was in response to the consistent way Mr. Sternlight begins discussing an 
issue, subtly shifts the emphasis and discussion away from the heart of the 
matter to points of debate and discussion of the "no, I'M the one who 
understands how to construct an Aristotlean argument"  type.  I simply ask 
that no one be gullible enough to get drawn into this type of arguing - it 
keeps more substantive discussion from flourishing.

>It is much more disturbing to me to read posts such as yours
>trying to silence an opposing viewpoint. If your opinions,
>or the opinions you support cannot tolerate dissent, then you
>should take a very hard look at them for they are suspect.

I did not try to silence an opposing viewpoint.  I admit I should have been 
more specific in my post, and asked everyone to stop wasting their time 
debating him when it seems his intention is to foster argument, not learning. 
It is one thing to say:

     "I believe that computing X will take Y processors Z days, for the 
     following reasons"

 it is another to say about almost every issue you discuss: 

     "If you had read my post, and followed my reasoning, you would see that 
     you are wrong; even though my reasoning is based on assumptions that have 
     been thoroughly and competently shown false, I consider the issue closed, 
     this issue is dead having been determined in my favor. Let's move along."

I believe the second example to be an accurate representation, admittedly 
paraphrased, of the bulk of Mr. Sternlight's posts.

>Silencing the opposition, nor encouraging others to assist you,
>are not acceptable tactics in any forum where freedom and
>truth have any value - Usenet is not yet (I think) a police
>state.

Again, I am not trying to silence an opposing viewpoint - for purposes of this 
debate, whether I agree with any of Mr. Sternlight's political views (or for 
example, his opinion that the U.S. government's actions regarding 
Clipper are logical) is not important - I object to the manner in which he 
presents his views and am disheartened by the efficiency with which he suckers 
others into his game.  

No, Usenet is not a police state.  I am grateful for that, every bit as much 
as I am grateful that I live in a country that is not a police state (however 
much I may feel it is moving that way).  I believe Mr. Sternlight has every 
right to post, to voice his opinions, and to try to convince others he is 
right.  I never asked him not to post.  I simply ask that no one give 
him the satisfaction of succumbing to his baiting tactics.


>K.R.(Ron) McKinnon
>Mathematical Engine Works Ltd., Coquitlam, B.C., Canada
>Internet: ron_mckinnon@mindlink.bc.ca Ph: (604)944-4775 Fax: (604)944-7484


--------------------------------------
Al Shaver, BIOS Developer              email: al.shaver@clemsonSC.NCR.COM
AT&T Global Information Solutions      phone: 803-843-5117
WPD Clemson, South Carolina

