Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.fan.david-sternlight
From: pla@sktb.demon.co.uk ("Paul L. Allen")
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!demon!sktb.demon.co.uk!pla
Subject: Re: I concede the key length/cracking point.
References: <strnlghtCn71AG.JoI@netcom.com> <mpdCn76n4.65A@netcom.com> <strnlghtCn78C6.L5H@netcom.com> <6Y8Yvhj024n@sktb.demon.co.uk> <strnlghtCnABH1.56y@netcom.com>
Reply-To: pla@sktb.demon.co.uk
Organization: Chaos
Lines: 204
X-Newsreader: Archimedes ReadNews
Date: Sat, 26 Mar 1994 22:10:34 +0000
Message-ID: <6YpUijj024n@sktb.demon.co.uk>
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:25148 comp.org.eff.talk:30504 alt.fan.david-sternlight:818

In article <strnlghtCnABH1.56y@netcom.com>
    strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:

> My supposition is that PGP/RIPEM (this is not a PGP partisan issue) are
> vulnerable to rich, smart cryptologic organizations who think a particular
> piece of traffic worth focussing on (very BIG trade secrets, big
> construction or oil field bids, etc.). I have no doubt they're more than
> adequate, if used with full routinely available key lengths, for keeping
> your credit card number out of the hands of bad guys, or keeping your next
> appointment with your special friend out of your spouse's hands.

Yes, but you have admitted that the available evidence indicates that IDEA
and TDES are secure and that RSA *might* be the weak link.  The question we
have to ask is just how weak (or strong) RSA is.

Paul Leyland estimates a 1024-bit RSA key would take 300 GIPS years (three
thousand 100 MIPS processors doing nothing else for a year).  Someone else
pointed out that we know the NSA has a 1024-node Connection Machine 5 and
used a bit of handwaving to guess that was equivalent to approx 60 GIPS.
It can have a max of 5120 processors, which takes us nicely to 300 GIPS, or
one whole year to break one 1024-bit RSA key.  We don't know what else the
NSA has, or how big their budget is now, or how much bigger it might get
if RSA became common-place, so let's assume they *now* have the full 300 GIPS.
We also know that processor chips double in power every 18 months, so in 10
years they will have 30000 GIPS - roughly enough to crack one 1024-bit RSA key
every 3 days.  However, adding 30 bits to an RSA key means the attack takes
around 10 times longer, so moving from PGP's 1024-bit key to the current
hardwired max of 1280 bits makes things 8 times harder - in 10 years the NSA
might be able to crack a 1280-bit key in 3 weeks.  Now consider how much mail
flows across the internet between ordinary joes like you and I per *day*, and
what would happen if they all routinely encrypted with PGP - there's no way
the NSA could keep up, particularly if we change our keys annually.

But the doubling of processor power every 18 months gives us a much bigger
advantage than it does to the NSA - long before they can crack a 1280-bit
in weeks we'll be using a 2048-bit key.  Older traffic might be compromised
but there will be a *lot* of old traffic (and there's a statute of
limitations).
 
> I'm also almost persuaded that if PGP/RIPEM, etc. could routinely generate
> longer RSA keys (3000 bits sounds nice), and they used at least the
> currently wired-in length of IDEA/TDES keys, that would probably be good for
> the next few years

Actually, 3000-bit RSA keys, like 128-bit IDEA keys would not only be
good for the next few years but for the next few eternities.

> IF the encryption and decryption times for such a key length were reasonable
> on commonly available desktop PCs and Macs, and the key generation a)didn't
> take forever, 

It seems to me you've shifted the goal-posts a little.  Your original argument
said that US companies needed to protect their commercial secrets from foreign
competitors who might get help from their governments in cracking US codes -
I agree with you here.  From this you reason that what is needed is truly
secure encryption - again no argument.  You then conclude that the NSA has
national interests at heart so Clipper must be secure - I strongly disagree
with you here - the NSA has only its *own* interests at heart and its primary
concern is that the NSA can read US traffic, whether or not it is secure
from prying foreign eyes is (IMHO) of secondary concern.  You even concede
that maybe RSA is safe with 3000-bit keys (I think it most definitely is
safe), but point out that these are too slow on a PC or Mac.  Now tell me
how many fortune 500 companies have only PCs and Macs and no Sparc 10s, DEC
Alphas or even Crays.  Tell me how many small companies can't find a dedicated,
fast 486 that they'd be willing to tie up for an hour or two to guarantee
that their *vital* commercial secrets stay secret.

I think your original argument no longer stands, or is severely weakened.

> b) with such long keys one could still be sure one wasn't generating
> so-called weak keys,

You can't guarantee that about Clipper either - the NSA has in the past
released a cipher with weak keys and strong keys - they knew how to find
the strong ones but a user-generated key would most probably be weak.  For
RSA and IDEA you have the source code to inspect and lots of published papers
by respected crypologists you can read.  You may or may not understand the
theory well enough for this to be any comfort - I don't understand it well
enough either, but there's a lot of clever people out there who do and
they haven't found a problem.

Actually, Grady Ward proposed a scheme whereby S-boxes can be tampered with
in such a way that they appear strong but if you know the secret they're
actually weak (in some ways this is analogous to public-key crypto).  If this
scheme is feasible then this could well have been used in Clipper to produce
something which NSA can crack trivially but their equally-clever and well-
equipped counterparts cannot.  This gives rise to 3 questions:

1) Is the scheme feasible?

2) If feasible, did NSA discover it long before Grady proposed it?

3) If feasible, and if the NSA knew about it, would they incorporate it
   in Clipper.

The answer to (1) requires someone with a far better understanding than I.
The anseer to (2) we'll never know, but it seems more than likely to be yes.
The answer to (3) is an unqualified and resounding yes - if it's possible, and
if they knew of it then you can bet a pound to a pinch of shit [old Yorkshire
saying] that they'd put it in.

> and c)some rich, smart cryptologic organizations haven't made breakthroughs
> in factoring or found weaknesses in IDEA/TDES.

This applies to *any* encryption scheme you care to propose, including
Clipper.

> Finally, it's been suggested to me that the Clipper issue isn't about today,
> but about tomorrow,and that rich, smart cryptologic organizations may have
> no trouble today, but it's hoped that by the time tomorrow comes along,
> Clipper will be so widespread that non-Clipper can be handled by "other"
> means.

I'm afraid I can't make sense of this as it stands.  Could you expand a little?

> In conclusion, I have to give a nod to the folks who are afraid non-Clipper
> might be banned some day:

Thanks David.  Most of the time I despair of you, but occasionally you
say something like this that makes me think that with a little effort on
both sides we could have a meeting of minds - maybe the gulf that separates
us isn't so wide after all.
 
> If in a few years widely available cheap machines (after all the roughly
> $1500 Power Mac is what, about 50 MHz?) make much longer keys easily
> feasible with short encryption/decryption times, then in a few years the
> government MIGHT actually want to ban non-escrowed crypto very badly.

I think it already does.  They might now be able to break a 1024-bit RSA key
in under a year, maybe even well under a year, but unless they ban other
crypto there will be a *lot* of those keys around.

> It would probably happen after the current Administration leaves office,
> making the current White House statements the literal truth for THIS
> administration.

That's one possibility, and one you haven't previously (if I understood you
correctly) thought to be plausible.  Other possibilities are that the ambiguous
wording of press statements (not legislation or even campaign promises) allow
the current administration enough leeway to do it as soon as Clipper is in
place.  Another is that they'd just break that promise (What?  I couldn't
believe any government would go back on its word...)

Why would the current administration do this?  Well, Clipper is so readily
abused that the current administration *could* misuse it to stay in power
perpetually just by finding things to blackmail or smear the opposition.
Would they do this?  Well, the reasoning might well be that if they don't the
next administration will, so you might as well have a liberal tyranny (irony
intended).

> Alternatively, if the NSA has approaches we don't know about which mean that
> such longer keys are still vulnerable, then we might never see such a ban in
> the U.S.

We already have - AT&T dropped their DES phone under pressure.  Not a ban
in the strict sense of the word, but if it looks like a duck, walks like a duck
and quacks you get out the orange sauce.  It looks like even the weak DES is
enough of a problem that the NSA want it replaced by Clipper where they can
use escrow as a shortcut (remember, the NSA only have to *claim* David
Sternlight made a transatlantic call to get his key).

> Note that it's possible to state the above carefully, non-hysterically, and
> without being offensive.

I wouldn't mind you being hysterical or offensive - I only require that your
arguments be well-reasoned and based on fact.
 
> Having taken a few hesitant steps down that path, a few things become
> clearer. For example the current effort in the Netherlands to ban
> non-escrowed crypto, and all crypto without permission, perhaps suggests
> that in the Netherlands they are there already--that is that their
> cryptologic capabilites aren't of an order comparable to some others and
> thus they have to face the "banning" decision now.

It's possible - their budget must be a lot lower than the US one.

> Perhaps the same has been true for France for a while. 

Less likely - I think it's just the French temperament. :-)

> We do have good reason to believe GCHQ is very advanced--we Americans have
> learned a thing or three from them, from what I read in the open literature.

Technically advanced, but the old-boy network means that positive vetting
consists of asking job candidates if they are spies and taking their word
for it. :-)

> Thus it's possible the issue hasn't yet become critical in the U.K.

Maybe.  Maybe not.  I personally think that GCHQ is shitting bricks [another
good old Yorkshire saying] - the UK has been a hair's breadth away from
becoming a banana republic for many years.  I don't think we can afford the
sort of computer power the NSA has.

> Dunno about the Germans.

Me neither.

The real nub of the matter is what is the worst-case analysis?  The chances
that other forms of crypto will be outlawed and Clipper will be abused may
be very small in your opinion, but the stakes are so very high I don't think
we can afford to take that gamble...

--Paul

