Path: msuinfo!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!b50-afrd10.lbl.gov!user
From: JTCHEW@lbl.gov (Ad absurdum per aspera)
Newsgroups: sci.research,sci.astro,sci.techniques.microscopy,sci.nonlinear,sci.med,sci.crypt,sci.engr.semiconductors
Subject: PHYSICS NEWS UPDATE #170, 28 Mar 94
Followup-To: sci.research
Date: 29 Mar 1994 01:21:36 GMT
Organization: Relayed, not written, by Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory
Lines: 71
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <JTCHEW-280394171936@b50-afrd10.lbl.gov>
NNTP-Posting-Host: 128.3.252.158
Xref: msuinfo sci.research:5662 sci.astro:55162 sci.techniques.microscopy:335 sci.nonlinear:967 sci.med:82636 sci.crypt:25202 sci.engr.semiconductors:184


[Written by individuals at the American Institute of Physics and
merely posted by me, so respond to <pfs2@aip.org> or other
references below.  Always posted here on sci.research; sometimes
crossposted to an eclectic selection of other newsgroups, with
followups directed here. Back issues may be ftp'd from NIC.HEP.NET,
along with FYI and the American Physical Society news/opinion 
column WHAT'S NEW.  Enjoy! -jc]

PHYSICS NEWS UPDATE
A digest of physics news items prepared by Phillip F. Schewe, AIP
Public Information
Number 170  March 28, 1994

CONTROLLING CHAOS through the use of small perturbations has
been possible in a number of systems, such as erratically vibrating
metal strips, certain electrical circuits, and mixing in chemical
reactions. At the APS Meeting last week in Pittsburgh, Rajarshi Roy
of Georgia Tech reported that by using a subtle feedback mechanism
he has been able to synchronize two separate chaotic lasers, a
development which might be applicable to schemes for encrypting
data.  Understanding and controlling fibrillating heart tissue may also
be possible with chaos-control methods.  Mark Spano of the Naval
Surface Warfare Center in Whiteoak, Maryland (also speaking at the
meeting) has determined that human atrial fibrillation, the massively
irregular beating of the atrial chambers of the heart, is chaotic in
nature.  He also has preliminary evidence that the more life-
threatening ventricular fibrillation (erratic behavior in the ventricle
chambers) is also chaotic.  In studies with rabbit heart tissue, he has
been able to control arrhythmia through the application of electrical
stimuli.  He reported similar work done with rat brain tissue in an
effort to control (apparently chaotic) electrical patterns characteristic
of epileptic behavior.

BUILDING WHOLE INSTRUMENTS ON A CHIP with integrated-
circuit technology is a major goal in the field of
microelectromechanical systems (MEMS).  At a session devoted to
this subject at the APS meeting, Susanne Arney of AT&T Bell Labs
described, for example, efforts to make tiny tunneling probe
microscopes with the same lithographic, etching, undercutting (etc.)
steps used in micro-circuit fabrication.  Jason Yao of Rockwell
described micro-resonators consisting of micron-sized arms of silicon
which, once excited by voltage pulses, oscillate consistently at MHz
frequencies.  The purity of the tone of this "tuning fork" is such that
the resonator might serve (particularly if encased in a tiny evacuated
shell) as an internal clock for computers.  At higher frequencies (100
MHz) the resonator could serve as a generator of radio waves.

HIGH-SPEED STM can reveal the incessant motion of atoms across
a silicon surface.  Not yet as fast as a movie and looking more like
a jerky time-lapse study of commuters on the go, picture sequences
recorded by scanning tunneling microscopes at a rate of several
frames per second for area views, or up to 1000 per second for single
rows of atoms, show how atoms touch down and lift off of terraced
surfaces under the influence of thermal agitation.  At the meeting,
Ellen Williams of the University of Maryland referred to these images
as "a stunning visualization of the ideas of statistical mechanics."

SOFT GAMMA RAY REPEATERS (SGR's) are celestial sources of
gamma bursts. Only three are known to exist in our galaxy. Unlike
the larger sample of gamma bursts---more than a thousand discovered
in recent years by the Gamma Ray Observatory---bursts from SGR's
are repeated and are at lower ("softer") gamma energies. The first
SGR was discovered 15 years ago.  Its apparent association with a
supernova remnant was doubted by some, but now a counterpart of
the second SGR, an object called SGR1806, has been observed at x-
ray (with the ASCA spacecraft) and radio (with the VLA telescope)
wavelengths.  The gamma-ray and x-ray observations were made
while the object was in the act of emitting bursts.  The astronomers
involved believe that SGR's are indeed neutron stars.  (Nature, 10
Mar.)
