Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!grady
From: grady@netcom.com (Grady Ward)
Subject: Re: Proposed index definition for standardized dictionaries
Message-ID: <gradyCnILDt.u0@netcom.com>
Organization: Moby lexical databases
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
References: <199403302019.VAA22334@an-teallach.com>
Date: Thu, 31 Mar 1994 05:46:40 GMT
Lines: 58

Sig spoke to me on the phone about his project several weeks ago.
While as you point out it is not specifically useful for Scrabble, 
it still is interesting.
 
The second thing I learned about language after doing lexicography 
for a while is that there are about as many useful possible 
applications of language lists as there are kinds of concepts that can 
be expressed in language.  A lot.
 
A language list constructed using novel criteria is like doing 
mathematics: concatenating simple logical rules from some
intuitive beginning can result in nonintuitive structures like the 
number zero, imaginary numbers, or Riemannian geometry that then 
can be used as the starting point in organizing further real-world 
experience like bookkeeping, electrical circuits, or the curvature of 
space-time.
 
Automatically collecting aphorisms used in legislative debate (for 
example) might lead one to a Lakoffian theory of metaphor that in 
turn might cast light onto the semantics of disagreements, perhaps 
defusing some future ones before they get a chance to cause human 
misery.
 
And the *first* thing I learned is that language has nice fuzzy edges 
because of its stochastic human origin. The lyrical thing about 
fuzziness is that it prevents language from fitting together too 
closely. Its fuzziness encourages some of the adventitious flowering 
of impossibilities that sometimes lead to seeds of a new rare and 
beautiful cultivar of truth.  For example, Berkeley was right: Newton 
made a mistake when he invented his 'infinitesimals' to support his 
calculus. But while 'infinitesimals' could be later rehabilitated as 
'limits', would a Newton inhibited from any mistakes by a more rigorously 
error-free language have made the original creative leap?
 
The second thing I learned was a practical consequence of the first 
thing. Language lists can cut across natural discourse and 
unexpectedly capture insights not realized in ordinary language 
structures. Do you know the intellectual power I feel when I am 
completely free to manage words like 'eidos' -- as well as 'shit'?
 
One last thing that I believe is that the more poets we have means 
that we eventually will have more poetry. So keep up the work Sig. 
Who knows what exotic beauty or ugliness it will lead to?
 
 
ObCrypt: If cryptography encompasses the more general problem of 
concealing, wielding, and expressing ideas, do I fear the low-level 
technical mastery of the NSA or do I exult in the higher-level 
cryptography of possessing a personal and immediate control of a 
language of infinite possibilities? The NSA cannot yet decrypt a mind 
that can reconcile Lobachevski and Grendel or Hilbert and Mishima.
And their culture of repression will never understand exactly why.
 
-- 
Grady Ward             | +1 707 826 7715  | finger grady@netcom.com for free
3449 Martha Ct.        | (voice/24hr FAX) | Moby lexicon brochure & samples
Arcata, CA  95521-4884 | 15E2ADD3D1C6F3FC | KN6JR monitoring 14.178 & 14.237
USA                    | 58ACF73D4F011E2F | 1800 UTC - 2000 UTC daily

