Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!EU.net!Germany.EU.net!netmbx.de!zib-berlin.de!news.rrz.uni-hamburg.de!fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de!bontchev
From: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de (Vesselin Bontchev)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.security.pgp,comp.security.unix,comp.security.misc
Subject: Re: Betsi
Followup-To: sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.security.pgp,comp.security.unix,comp.security.misc
Date: 31 Aug 1994 11:19:33 GMT
Organization: University of Hamburg -- Germany
Lines: 88
Message-ID: <341p05$ae9@rzsun02.rrz.uni-hamburg.de>
References: <CvD2C7.2J7@walter.bellcore.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:31432 alt.security:18542 alt.security.pgp:19762 comp.security.unix:7992 comp.security.misc:11501

Avi Rubin (rubin@faline.bellcore.com) writes:

> I recently posted an announcement about Bellcore's 
> Trusted Software Integrity System (Betsi). If you
> did not see that, you can send mail to certify@bellcore.com
> with subject: help

Betsi is an excellent idea; I've read your paper and was about to send
you some comments, but maybe it would be better to post them here.

As an anti-virus researcher, I have often witnessed attacks on the
shareware anti-virus products that are distributed electronically. In
this aspect, the appearance of a trusted certifying service is
certainly welcome. I have also strongly encouraged the producers of
such shareware to generate PGP keys and include detached signatures of
their programs in the archives containing their product.

OK, now the remarks about your particular implementation.

1) Its main problem is that it relies on the fact that the users of
the software that is certified this way will (a) have PGP, (b) know
how to use it, (c) bother to use it to verify the authenticity of the
packages, (d) know about Betsi, and (e) trust Betsi. You certainly
know this; I'm just afraid that it is not emphasized well enough in
your paper. Only the condition (e) is relatively easy to fulfil;
hopefully the other conditions will be fulfilled in the future when
software certifications and PGP become more common among the average
users.

2) I don't like the format of the messages that Betsi certifies. In
particular, I don't see the need to put the name of the ftp site
there. The packages are usually uploaded to many ftp sites, some sites
mirror others, and so on, so it is very cumbersome to insist on a
separate certification for each ftp site. I would suggest that this
line is omitted from the message.

3) By "file version number" you mean the version number of the
product, right?

4) I don't like the fact that the current message format allows only a
signle *file* to be certified. Most products come in packages (usually
contained in an archive) and consist of multiple files, the integrity
of many of which is critical for the proper functioning of the
product. It would be too cumbersome to have a different certificate
for each of those files. Generating a certificate for the whole
archive is not good either, because many archive sites (e.g., Garbo)
re-package the archives, add archive comments, and otherwise modify
the original file. I would suggest that you allow more than one file
per certificate, i.e., that the section that lists the MD5 hashes can
contain several lines, each listing a combination of a file name and a
MD5 hash for that file.

5) I don't like the format of the output of the program MD5sum, which
you propose for computing the MD5 hashes. It is often useful to have
some additional information, like the file size and date of last
modification. Maybe you should create a modified version of MD5sum
that lists those data too on a single line, make sure that the program
is portable and works on many different platforms, create the proper
makefile (which is lacking in the PGP distribution that has MD5sum)
and make it available?

6) I don't like the idea that the certification should be in a
separate file in the same directory at the ftp site where the
certified file is. Instead, the certification should be included in
the archive that contains the package - this way you'll make sure that
the user who downloads the package will get the certification.

7) Since you'll go through some efforts to authenticate the people who
register their keys with Betsi, maybe you should also sign their
public keys with Betsi's key? This way they will be able to create
detached signatures and include their (signed by Betsi) key in their
packages.

> Betsi's key has now been signed by Phil Zimmerman,
> the author of pgp. Here is Betsi's public key, signed 
> by Phil and myself:

This was my 8th remark - that you should arrange to get Betsi's key
certified by a trusted key. I'm glad that you have solved this
problem.

Regards,
Vesselin
--
Vesselin Vladimirov Bontchev          Virus Test Center, University of Hamburg
Tel.:+49-40-54715-224, Fax: +49-40-54715-226      Fachbereich Informatik - AGN
< PGP 2.3 public key available on request. > Vogt-Koelln-Strasse 30, rm. 107 C
e-mail: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de        22527 Hamburg, Germany
