Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
From: iolo@mist.demon.co.uk (Iolo Davidson)
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!udel!news.sprintlink.net!demon!mist.demon.co.uk!iolo
Subject: Re: Zimmermann on PGP 2.6 myths
Distribution: world
References: <9409012113.AA001fp@flevel.demon.co.uk>
Organization: Lair of the Mist Demons
Reply-To: io1o@mist.demon.co.uk
X-Newsreader: Demon Internet Simple News v1.27
Lines: 46
Date: Fri, 2 Sep 1994 00:35:12 +0000
Message-ID: <778466112snz@mist.demon.co.uk>
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:31518 alt.security.pgp:19864

In article <9409012113.AA001fp@flevel.demon.co.uk>
           david@flevel.demon.co.uk "David Southwell" writes:

> Look at it this way-- some mathematical wizards would be prepared 
> to stake their lives on the security of PGP yet beyond repeated 
> statements about the difficulty of factoring 1024 bit numbers do 
> not seem to have any meaningful mathematical statements about its 
> level of reliabilty.

You have been asking the impossible (prove me a negative), and 
since it is impossible you will not get it.  In the meantime, you 
will worry a lot of people who haven't the background in the 
subject to realise that your expressions of concern are 
meaningless, and they will all go off twittering about how there 
might be backdoors in PGP to others without the background to 
realise that speculations about "might be"s are not meaningful, 
who will then post to these groups that they have heard there is 
a backdoor in PGP (as their first post, without reading the group 
for a whole minute) and we will all get to go around the loop 
again.  

Eventually, Newsweek will hear the rumour and print it as a bald 
fact, attributing un-named government sources.  At this point 
everyone will realise that it is nonsense and we will finally get 
some peace.

If no can demonstrate a weakness in PGP or RSA or whatever, then
that will have to do.  People with the requisite expertise have 
been picking at it, and will keep picking at it.  So far, they 
say PGP does not have a backdoor or an easy way for it to be 
cracked.  It has some key management issues that people need to 
be aware of to use it securely, and those are enough to worry 
about.

If the NSA has bred a race of supermen in secret who can out- 
think mere human mathemeticians and come up with other answers, 
then we're stuck.  But you might as well believe in magic 
spectacles.  Hey, maybe they can control your mind with invisible 
rays!  

--

THO STIFF                         IT SHAVES
         THE BEARD                         LIKE DOWN WITH
                  THAT NATURE GAVE                       Burma Shave

