Path: msuinfo!agate!darkstar.UCSC.EDU!news.hal.COM!olivea!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!news.umbc.edu!olson
From: olson@umbc.edu (Bryan G. Olson; CMSC (G))
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Security of Blowfish
Date: 3 Sep 1994 07:56:58 GMT
Organization: University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Lines: 42
Message-ID: <349a8a$fra@news.umbc.edu>
References: <rlcCvJG5B.45A@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: umbc7.umbc.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

Robert Clark (rlc@netcom.com) wrote:
: Does anyone have information about the results of attacks on Blowfish?  I 
: understand that there was a contest held to see who could produce the best 
: attack.  Are any results available?  Has the algorithm stood up to 
: concerted attack?  How thoroughly has it been attacked?  What is the 
: current judgement about how likely it is to be secure?

So far nothing you could call a result has appeared.  There's just
opinion, like say, mine...

As a research contribution, Blowfish isn't very interesting.  The
cipher has no really new ideas, and the paper has not a single
theorem.  Schneier almost slavishly followed the conventional wisdom on
how to design a cipher we can't even come close to breaking.  How
boring.  :)

Actually, Schneier did an excellent job (IMHO) of choosing operations
which add as much cryptographic complexity as possible in as little
time as possible.  So far, there are not any good attacks on most of
the ciphers which use key dependent S-boxes.  This may be because they
have only recently been widely deployed, but I think keyed s-boxes add
greatly to a cipher's complexity.

The one change I would have recommended is not to combine the P-key in
the same was as the F-function output.  Both are now exclusive or'ed.
If the P-key were added instead, this would add a little complexity
due to the mix of operations, and it would take the same time.  Both
are linear, but over different fields.  Within the F function, Bruce
is careful to alternate addition and xor.  I don't know why he didn't
carry on the alternation and add the P-keys.

While I'm nit-picking, I would also like a _more_ complex setup
procedure.  Rather than randomize the P-key and S-box just once, I'd
go P-key, S-box, P-key, S-box, P-key.  I also don't like keeping the
running data block and replacing successive blocks with it, since this
means the input that generated a blocks contents is the contents of
the block right before it.  I'd replace each block with its own
encryption, especially if I were using the PSPSP pattern.

I would not hesitate to trust the most secret data to Blowfish.

--Bryan
