Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: Zimmermann on PGP 2.6 myths
Message-ID: <strnlghtCvKJs8.n1M@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <9409020801.AA001gb@flevel.demon.co.uk> <jlicquia.61.00090081@mhc.uiuc.edu>
Date: Sat, 3 Sep 1994 19:36:08 GMT
Lines: 65
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:31575 alt.security.pgp:19947

In article <jlicquia.61.00090081@mhc.uiuc.edu>,
Jeff Licquia <jlicquia@mhc.uiuc.edu> wrote:

>The above conclusion is based on the evidence publicly available.  This does 
>not mean that some government agency has not secretly broken RSA, IDEA, or 
>some flaw in PGP's implementation of either of these.  It does not also take 
>into account as-yet-undiscovered attacks, magic spectacles, invisible rays, 
>space alien cryptographic research, psychic cryptanalysis, gravitational 
>effects on RSA-encrypted messages, or any recent discoveries that Brownian 
>motion in formica tabletops upon which computers sit can cause the MD5 hash 
>those computers calculate to be indistinguishable from cleartext. :-)

It is a bit unfair to equate legitimate issues with wild fantasies. The main
attack on RSA is via factoring. Factoring is a field in which there is much
research, with newer approaches being developed every so often which make
the time to crack RSA keys less. It's not some absolute, but an area of
research and progress.

Now we believe from episodic public evidence, that the NSA hires lots of
mathematicians and uses them to work on mathematical cryptography. The work
is among the most closely guarded in our national security collection, since
simple divulging of certain kinds of information by name, without even the
need for details, can cause adversaries to change crypto systems with the
concomitant loss to the NSA's "take" of information critical to national
security. I'm talking about the big stuff here, such as monitoring the
senior traffic of some overt adversary, not the nit-picking stuff about
which civil liberties advocates love to argue.

Given the above, it is not unreasonable to speculate that the NSA might have
made some breakthroughs in special factoring techniques that are not in the
literature. I don't know anything specific about this, but it is not only
logical but likely, and not some wild reference to mystery rays designed to
discredit another.

Thus on first principles, public key crypto systems which depend on
algorithms vulnerable to factoring are inherently risky. Straightforward
systems vulnerable only to brute force search (leaving aside "practical
cryptanalysis") seem to me to be far more secure, in that one can pick keys
sufficiently long that they will resist even the fastest computers one can
expect in ten years (based on historical evolution), or even a two-thousand
parallel processor machine searching a subdivided key space.

There are some practical advantages to public key systems, mainly in the
area of the ability to communicate securely without prearrangement. There
are also some clever applications involving signatures. But for vanilla
cryptography, if one CAN do secure key exchange in advance, systems like
Capstone (without escrow) or higher-security-certified relatives seem to me
to be far more secure, without the logistical disadvantages of one-time
pads, than RSA or other factoring-vulnerable systems.

Speaking practically, however, RSA-type systems are just fine unless one is
worried about an adversary with NSA's capabilites. Such systems are quite
secure, as far as current open literature thinking is concerned, with keys
of, say, 1024 bits, for even the most significant financial transactions or
commercial secrets if one is not worried about the French or Japanese or
(for non-U.S. people) the American governments cracking one's traffic.

Finally, this is a subject for solid discussion, not the silliness of the
message I'm replying to.

David
-- 
People who post newsgroup flames
Must have flammable gas for brains.
Burma Shave.
