Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!jussieu.fr!univ-lyon1.fr!swidir.switch.ch!newsfeed.ACO.net!Austria.EU.net!EU.net!uunet!silverton.berkeley.edu!djb
From: djb@silverton.berkeley.edu (D. J. Bernstein)
Message-ID: <1994Sep407.00.23.569@silverton.berkeley.edu>
Date: 4 Sep 1994 07:00:23 GMT
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto
Subject: --- sci.crypt charter: read before you post (weekly notice)
Organization: IR
Lines: 39
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:31593 talk.politics.crypto:7148

sci.crypt		Different methods of data en/decryption.
talk.politics.crypto	The relation between cryptography and government.

The Cryptography FAQ is posted to sci.crypt and talk.politics.crypto
every three weeks. You should read it before posting to either group.

A common myth is that sci.crypt is USENET's catch-all crypto newsgroup.
It is not. It is reserved for discussion of the _science_ of cryptology,
including cryptography, cryptanalysis, and related topics such as 
one-way hash functions.

Use talk.politics.crypto for the _politics_ of cryptography, including
Clipper, Digital Telephony, NSA, RSADSI/PKP, and export controls.

What if you want to post an article which is neither pure science nor
pure politics? Go for talk.politics.crypto. Political discussions are
naturally free-ranging, and can easily include scientific articles. But
sci.crypt is much more limited: it has no room for politics.

It's appropriate to post (or at least cross-post) Clipper discussions to
alt.privacy.clipper, which should become talk.politics.crypto.clipper at
some point.

To discuss the use of PGP, try alt.security.pgp. To discuss the use of
RIPEM, try alt.security.ripem. There are proposals to make a comp.crypto
or comp.software.crypto hierarchy, for discussing the use of various
cryptographic programs; an alternate proposal is to use comp.security
for the same purpose.

Questions about microfilm and smuggling and other non-cryptographic
``spy stuff'' don't belong in sci.crypt. There was once a misc.security
group where such questions might have been appropriate; I don't know 
where it has gone.

Other relevant newsgroups: misc.legal.computing, comp.org.eff.talk,
comp.org.cpsr.talk, alt.politics.org.nsa, comp.patents, sci.math,
comp.compression, comp.security.misc.

---Dan
