Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!overload.lbl.gov!lll-winken.llnl.gov!uop!csus.edu!netcom.com!jonadams
From: jonadams@netcom.com (Jonathan Adams)
Subject: Re: Password Creation
Message-ID: <jonadamsCvLE2w.KDJ@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 261-4700 guest)
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
References: <348rnc$b3t@insosf1.infonet.net>
Date: Sun, 4 Sep 1994 06:30:32 GMT
Lines: 48

Matt Harmon (harmon@worf.infonet.net) wrote:
: Howdy...  I have been fairly concious of what passwords I choose for an 
: Online-Service that I am creating, and passwords for my own security...  
: To the point, I have assigned a series of Semi-Random numbers to the 26 
: letters of the alphabet.  Is there a way that I can use those numbers 
: (1-26) in a simple encryption scheme? For Example, if I want my 
: unencrypted password to be AOHELLSUCKS and A = 1 O = 15 etc...  Is there 
: an encryption scheme that would let me take those and put them into a 
: sum?  I should proboly just think of it myself but I was hopping that 
: someone has a fairly complex one that I could use...  Thanks...

Don't use numbers. Use a one way hash function. (You might consider looking 
at the Unix crypt(3) command). Summing isn't a very safe way of encrypting
passwords, IMHO. You also might consider doing something like repeating the
password, slightly permuted each time, into a string, then using MD5 or
the moral equivilant to get a 128 bit hash. For example:

A STUPID PASSWORD

becomes

A STUPID PASSWORDDAR OSWTSUSPAIPD  DDAPAIRA POSSUWST...

(take the original phrase. take the last letter then the first letter and
put them in another string, in that order. then take the second to last and
the second letter adn append them to the other string, repeat for all 
characters in string. then append string to first string. repeat algorithm on
second string. Do this around 50 or 100 times)

This would almost certainly guarentee that no two passwords will hash to the 
same value.

Oh, BTW. the problem with summing them is that, for instance, the passwords:

HI BOB

and

BOB HI

yield the same addition.

Hope this helps ya out,
	Jonathan Adams
-- 
				        jonadams@netcom.com
PGP 2.6 key available. Fingerprint:     (Jonathan Adams)
    40 27 43 E0 5C 20 66 0E  EE 8C 10 9F EC 40 78 6A 
