Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!news.umbc.edu!olson
From: olson@umbc.edu (Bryan G. Olson; CMSC (G))
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Vernam random ciphering on CD ROM
Date: 5 Sep 1994 06:28:29 GMT
Organization: University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Lines: 75
Message-ID: <34edqd$sua@news.umbc.edu>
References: <342ks0$mfi@news.umbc.edu> <34cqmt$r8i@news.delphi.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: umbc7.umbc.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

MICFOR@DELPHI.COM (micfor@news.delphi.com) wrote:
: olson@umbc.edu (Bryan G. Olson; CMSC (G)) writes:

: >My opinion was (and still is) that CD ROM is a terrible medium for the
: >OTP key stream.  First, you want exactly two copies of the random
: >stream.  CD ROM has an economic advantage only for large runs.
: >Second, you want to destroy the part of the stream already used.  CD
: >ROM has no erase facilities, outside of physical destruction of the
: >entire disk.

: My company has been producing One Time Pads on CD-ROM for several
: months now.  The CD-ROM format has many advantages,it is relatively
: inexpensive, one pair is $150.00(US Dollars), which is cheaper than
: some software packages. It is a standard, anyone can buy a cheap
: CD-ROM drive (less than $200).

No disrespect intended, but a system like you describe, where a third
party provides the key, would only add to my objections.

: It is true that you cannot erase the bits as they are used, there is
: some problem with every method but it is expected that the cd-rom 
: will be kept secure and this should not be a  serious security concern, 
: after all where the cd-rom is stored is likely where the unencrypted
: messages are also stored.

The messages might not be stored.  A major problem with cryptography is
that compromised key material can, in the words of Whit Diffie, "reach
backward in time" to compromise data sent long ago.

: The one problem I have encountered is shipping, for a pad that
: only costs $150 most people are concerned about paying $500 for
: a private courier to pick it up and fly back, and using FedEx
: and UPS to ship something of such value is questionable

In a system like you describe, in which a third party provides the
key, you must of course consider this cost.  With a user-generated
key, you have one less shipment per key.  Of course a public key
system makes distribution much cheaper.

: As for security, well at some point you have to trust someone unless
: you do everything yourself and most people
: cannot afford to take the time to do the research needed to do
: encryption right.  You have to trust the programmer not to have
: left backdoors in commercial packages(not a good idea) and you
: have to trust that the random pad is random, but at least you 
: can analyize the pad to see tha it IS random(high entropy) and
: you can see the code and understand how it works.  

Back doors are just as much a threat in a one time pad system as in
any other.  You seem to suggest that a user can be more confident in
the random key stream than in software packages.  This is not true in
either theory or practice.

In practice, a user can get software which has been widely inspected
and signed with a well-known key.  This provides confidence with no
single point of weakness.  A third party key has no such protection.

In theory, the state of the art allows detection of back-doors in
software, especially with source code, or in software designed to show
the lack of back doors.  Even the chance of discovery is likely to
dissuade vendors from putting in back doors.

On the other hand, a key stream which passes all tests for randomness
can easily be predictable to the supplier.  I disagree that "you can
analyze the pad to see that it is random (high entropy)."  I'd bet
money I could supply streams which would pass any randomness test you
could apply, but given a 512 bit substring, I could predict the rest.
I don't even have to store the whole stream, just one short
conventional key, making the stream very low entropy.

I don't wish failure on anyone's business, but I still think CD ROM is
a terrible medium for a one time pad key stream.

--Bryan

