Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!udel!MathWorks.Com!zombie.ncsc.mil!golf!mizzou1.missouri.edu!C445585
From: C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Subject: Re: Zimmermann on PGP 2.6 myths
Date: Mon, 05 Sep 94 20:52:47 CDT
Organization: University of Missouri, Columbia
Lines: 60
Message-ID: <17028125A5S86.C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu>
References: <9409020801.AA001gb@flevel.demon.co.uk> <jlicquia.61.00090081@mhc.uiuc.edu> <strnlghtCvKJs8.n1M@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: mizzou1.missouri.edu
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:31645 alt.security.pgp:20102

In article <strnlghtCvKJs8.n1M@netcom.com>
strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:
 
>Thus on first principles, public key crypto systems which depend on
>algorithms vulnerable to factoring are inherently risky. Straightforward
>systems vulnerable only to brute force search (leaving aside "practical
>cryptanalysis") seem to me to be far more secure, in that one can pick keys
>sufficiently long that they will resist even the fastest computers one can
>expect in ten years (based on historical evolution), or even a two-thousand
>parallel processor machine searching a subdivided key space.
 
   Hmmm.  I understand the logic behind this statement, but I can see a
couple of problems.  First of all, the NSA is no doubt spending a lot of
effort breaking all kinds of ciphers, including stream ciphers based on
LFSR sequences, block ciphers like DES, IDEA, Blowfish, Khufu, REDOC-II,
hash functions like MD5 and SHA, etc.  Many of the same arguments apply
to use of these ciphers/hash functions.  Perhaps the NSA has found some
kind of extremely effective attack against key-derived s-boxes, and they
thus have no problem disposing of Khufu and Blowfish.  Perhaps they have
found some devastating new attack on SP-network-based ciphers, and can
crack triple DES in a few hours per message and half a dozen known plain-
texts.  And the situation is even worse, because the Russian, Chinese,
British, French, Swiss, German, Israeli, etc., security agencies are work-
ing on the same kinds of problems.
 
   Ultimately, though, all we can do is to make reasonable comments about
what kinds of attacks we know of, and how to guard against them.  After
that, it seems like some overengineering (using 3-key 3DES, for example)
and using our ciphers carefully (precompressing the plaintext before
encryption, using CBC or CFB mode with a random IV, changing keys often)
give us a good chance of avoiding even the attacks of the very best
analysts.
 
>But for vanilla
>cryptography, if one CAN do secure key exchange in advance, systems like
>Capstone (without escrow) or higher-security-certified relatives seem to me
>to be far more secure, without the logistical disadvantages of one-time
>pads, than RSA or other factoring-vulnerable systems.
 
   I agree, though for different reasons.  Within a well designed
encryption system, the actual cipher being used should never be
exposed to a chosen-plaintext attack.  Public key schemes can be
exposed to those attacks at any time.  Also, schemes like RSA or
El Gamal require much more work for the same difficulty of attack,
based on currently-known attacks I'm aware of.
 
   Now, I have some strong suspicions that NSA designed SHA and
DSS to their best specifications.  They want these things used by
US businesses for electronic commerce.  Imagine the destructive
impact on the economy of 10 years from now, if these schemes were
broken by America's enemies, and the break was used to forge some
well-planned electronic receipts and cause financial chaos....
 
If we could find a way to prove a cipher equal in strength to either
of these, I'd suspect that NSA couldn't break it.
 
>David
 
   --John Kelsey, c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu
      moving to   jkelsey@bigcat.missouri.edu
