Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!news.amherst.edu!news.mtholyoke.edu!uhog.mit.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!swiss.ans.net!gatech!swrinde!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!george.inhouse.compuserve.com!news.inhouse.compuserve.com!compuserve.com!news
From: Jim Demberger <74425.1642@CompuServe.COM>
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Virtual One-Time-Pads
Date: 6 Sep 1994 21:50:56 GMT
Organization: none-set
Lines: 42
Message-ID: <34io80$386$1@mhade.inhouse.compuserve.com>

Various writers have recently commented regarding use of CDRom or
magnetic tape for storage of One-Time-Pads.  How about a program
that generates OTPs that do not require any storage media - the
OTPs are virtual files rather that physical files.
 
The program can generate millions of virtual OTPs that are millions
of bytes in length.  The virtual OTPs are generated a character at a
time and use Vernam (XOR) encryption to encrypt files of any length.
There are no lengthy random files that must be duplicated and kept
secure; the program re-creates the virtual OTP when decrypting a
file.  If you really do need a million byte physical OTP (disk
file), just encrypt a million byte file of 00hex characters.
 
Source code for the program runs under QBasic, QuickBasic or
PowerBasic and since it is very basic BASIC, it should not be much of
a job to convert it to C or assembler.  Public Domain, no patents or
licenses; exportable since public domain is exempt from ITAR
regulations.
 
What's the catch?  Program is not available on any FTP site (AFAIK)
but can be downloaded from CompuServe.  ZIP file with source code,
compiled EXE file and documentation has filename VOTP11.ZIP (46778
bytes) and it is in NCSAFORU Lib 6, EFFSIG Lib 15, IBMSYS Lib 6 and
PCVENB Lib 12.  Maybe some kind soul will get it off of CompuServe and
post it to a crypto FTP site.  The program is a prototype put together
to present some ideas that might be useful for individuals wanting
their own personal file encryption software. There are a lot more
IBM/PC DOS systems out there that can compile and run BASIC source
code than there are systems that can compile and run C source code.
 
My access to Internet thru CompuServe is limited to EMail and to
reading and posting articles to newsgroups.  Before you hit me with
questions regarding the program, get a copy of the VOTP11.ZIP, extract
and run the compiled EXE program and read the documentation file.  I
don't have any in-depth knowledge of cryptanalysis, hopefully those
that are qualified to evaluate the program will post answers to
questions that go over my head.
-- 
Jim Demberger          Internet:  74425.1642@compuserve.com
 
 
 
