Path: msuinfo!uchinews!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!swrinde!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!wp-sp.nba.trw.com!gatekeeper.esl.com!news
From: dwa@mirage.esl.com (Dana Albrecht)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: WANTED: decent MP math library
Date: 6 Sep 1994 22:58:23 GMT
Organization: ESL, Inc., Sunnyvale, CA
Lines: 400
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <34is6f$fif@gatekeeper.esl.com>
References: <34hvp0$4c7@pheidippides.axion.bt.co.uk>
Reply-To: dwa@mirage.esl.com
NNTP-Posting-Host: elmos.esl.com


I didn't write the following.  I'm just posting it here.  An email reply
to you bounced, so my apologies if most of the other readers of this
group have seen this before.

Dana W. Albrecht
dwa@mirage.esl.com

-------------------------------------------------------------------------


This is the file BIGNUMS.TXT from ripem.msu.edu, last updated January 1994.

In response to Email requests, I have assembled this list of
large-integer arithmetic packages of which I have heard.
Most of these are C function libraries, available in source form.
A few also deal with floating point numbers.  

For your convenience, I have placed copies of
some of these on ripem.msu.edu (35.8.1.178).  They are
available for anonymous FTP in the directory "pub/bignum".
However, what I have may not be the most current version in all cases.
The files at my site are marked "Filename:".  I also, in most
cases, include the original source.

Here they are, in no particular order:

mp
    Multiple Precision package that comes with some Unixes
    
    Multiple precision package accessed via -lmp flag on your
    compiler.  Provides +, -, *, /, gcd, exponentiation,
    sqrt.  Comes with SunOS, NeXT Mach, BBN Mach 1000, 
    and probably a few others.  See "man 3 mp".  
    Object code only, of course.

PARI
    Henri Cohen, et al., Universite Bordeaux I, Paris, FRANCE
    
    Multiple precision desk calculator and library routines.
    Contains optimized assembly code for Motorola 68020, 
    semi-optimized code for SPARC, and apparently rather slow
    generic C version.  Does both integers and reals.
    Does vectors and matrices as well as scalars.
    Contains a number of advanced functions, some of which I've
    never heard of.  ("Weber's function"?)
    Has a factorization function, primality test, & other related stuff.
    Plenty of TEX documentation.
    Public domain, but you can't distribute modified versions.
    Available via anonymous FTP from ftp.inria.fr:lang/ and 
    math.ucla.edu.  The ucla site has Mac, MSDOS, OS/2, and
    NeXT-specific versions there in addition to:
    Filename:  pari-1.37.tar.Z  (There are now more recent versions)
    
Arithmetic in Global Fields  (Arith)
    Kevin R. Coombes, David R. Grant
    
    Package of routines for arbitrary precision integers or
    polynomials over finite fields.  Includes basic +, -, *, /
    and a few others like gcd.  Source code in C.
    Distributed under the terms of the GNU public license.
    Includes man pages and TEX documentation.
    Filename:  arith.tar.Z

Arbitrary Precision Math Library
    Lloyd Zusman   Los Gatos, CA
    
    C package which supports basic +, -, *, /.  Provides for radix
    points (i.e., non-integers).  Not as polished as the others here.
    Posted to comp.sources.misc in October 1988.
    Filename:  apml.tar.Z
    
BigNum
    J. Vuillemin, INRIA, FRANCE, and others.
    Distributed by Digital Equipment Paris Research Lab (DECPRL)
    
    A "portable and efficient arbitrary-precision integer" package.
    C code, with generic C "kernel", plus assembly "kernels" for
    MC680x0, Intel i960, MIPS, NS32032, Pyramid, and of course VAX.
    This is probably one of the better-known packages of this type.
    Implements +, -, *, /, mod, plus logical operations OR, AND, XOR.
    Both signed and unsigned arithmetic available.
    Formerly available via email from librarian@decprl.dec.com.
    You will receive 5 shell archives.  Give your postal address
    and you will also receive printed documentation from France.
    Package includes TEX documentation.
    Publicly available for non-commercial use.
    I removed this from my archive when I heard a rumor that PRL
    doesn't like others to distribute it.  However, BIGNUM *is*
    distributed as part of ecpp (see below).

Lenstra's LIP package
    Arjen Lenstra   Bellcore
    
    Portable unsigned integer package written entirely in C.
    Includes +, -, *, /, exponentiation, mod, primality testing,
    sqrt, random number generator, and a few others.  
    An earlier version of this package is the only of these packages
    I have actually used.  It works well and is very portable.  
    I haven't done any benchmarks against the others, but the code 
    looks clever & Lenstra is an accomplished number theorist.

    LIP replaces lenstra-3.1.c.  The package now includes encrypted
    source code; to obtain the decryption key, you must send a
    signed license agreement to Bellcore.  See the documentation.
    Filename:  lenstra-LIP-package.tar  This is a collection of
    all the files in flash.bellcore.com:/pub/lenstra

bmp  (Brent's Multiple Precision?)
    R. P. Brent

    1981 vintage FORTRAN code to do extended precision floating &
    fixed point arithmetic.  Includes most of the mathematical
    functions you'd find in a FORTRAN run-time library.
    This code is an ACM algorithm, number 524.
    To obtain, send a mail message to  netlib@ornl.gov
    containing the line "send mp.f from bmp" or better yet, perhaps
    just start with "help".

SPX
    Kannan Alagappan & Joseph Tardo, DEC
    
    This is a huge prototype public key authentication system
    based on RSA.  I mention it here because those who have heard
    of SPX have probably correctly guessed that it contains a large
    integer package and I want to inform you that the large integer
    package it contains is indeed DEC's BigNum from France.
    You can get a beta test copy of SPX from crl.dec.com (192.58.206.2). 
    Use it only for testing, as it "may" expire on a certain date.
    (I don't know whether this has expired yet.)

amp  (Antti's Multiple Precision?)
    Antti Louko   alo@kampi.hut.fi

    Multiple precision integer package in C.  Includes +, -, *, /, %,
    pow, mod, 1/x mod y, random, sqrt, gcd.  Available for non-commercial
    use.  The package includes "share-secret", a public key system based
    on the Diffie-Hellman algorithm.
    This is normally part of the well-known "des-dist.tar.Z",
    but I have removed the DES part to avoid having to deal with 
    cryptographic export laws, and have named the result:
    Filename:  amp.tar.Z

gennum  
    Per Bothner   U of Wisconsin-Madison

    C++ routines and classes to do generic arithmetic, both
    integer and rational.  Part of the "Q" programming system.
    Distributed under the terms of the GNU public license.
    Obtained from cygnus.com.
    Filename: gennum.tar.Z

MIRACL
    (Shamus Software, Dublin, Ireland)

    Integer and fractional multiple precision package.
    MIRACL is a portable C library. Full C/C++ source code included 
    (In-line assembly support for 80x86). Number theoretic primitives
    needed to support PK Cryptography are supplied.   
    C++ classes for Multiprecision Integers, Modular arithmetic, and 
    Chinese Remainder Thereom. Implementation in C/C++ of all modern 
    methods of Integer Factorisation, viz Brent-pollard, p-1, p+1, 
    Elliptic Curve, MPQS.  Includes TEX manual and some DOS .EXEs.
    Not public domain, but free for academic and non-commercial use.
    Obtained from ftp.compapp.dcu.ie.
    Filename:  /pub/crypt/other/miracl-3.23.zip and miracl.tar.Z (older)

precision
    Dave Barrett  barrettd@tigger.colorado.edu

    Multiple precision integer package in C with +,-,*,/, sqrt, rand,
    mod, pow, log.  Simple vector support.  Does dynamic allocation of memory.
    Free as long as you don't sell it or any program that uses it.
    Filename:  precision.tar.Z

UBASIC
    Prof. Yuji Kida, Rikkyo University, Nishi-Ikebukuro 3, Tokyo 171, Japan
    kida@rkmath.rikkyo.ac.jp

    Multiple-precision version of the BASIC programming language,
    for MS-DOS.  Includes floating point.  Said (by Keith Briggs)
    to be pretty fast.  Object only, I think.  ervin@morekypr.bitnet
    says:  "This is the best package that I know of for
    fast arithmetic.  Has a version optimized for 386 machines.  Includes
    routines to do MPQS, the fastest currently known general factoring
    algorithm.  An additional file is at both sites to allow MPQS to use
    hard drives so that it can factor up to 80 digits.  Many number
    theoretical functions are included in UBASIC.  It allows over 2500
    digits of precision."
    Available via anonymous FTP from shape.mps.ohio-state.edu,
    or simtel20.army.mil, or wuarchive.wustl.edu.

calc_v22
    Unknown

    MS-DOS C-like language that allows "infinite" precision.
    Nice intrinsic functions.  ervin@morekypr.bitnet reports problems
    when changing precision on the fly.
    See simtel20 or wuarchive.

briggs_arith
    Keith Briggs (kbriggs@maths.adelaide.edu.au)

    Turbo Pascal 5 source for routines that do multiple-precision
    +, -, *, /, sqrt, gcd, factoring, rand for integers; also includes
    +, -, *, / and rand for rational numbers.
    Filename:  briggs_arith.pas

Institute fur Experimentelle Mathematik
    Dr Gerhard Schneider (?)

    Fast C multiple-precision subroutine library.
    I don't know anything about it; sl25@ely.cl.cam.ac.uk says
    to contact MAT420@DE0HRZ1A.BITNET for more info.
    Postal Address:
    Institute fur Experimentelle Mathematik
    EllernStr 29
    D4300 Essen-12    GERMANY

LongInt
    Markus Mueller (mueller@komsys.tik.ethz.ch)

    "Multi precision arithmetic written in MODULA-2, with the most time critical
    parts written in Assembler. Includes basic arithmetics (+, -, *, /, %) as
    well as arithmetics MODULO a number. An additional module provides a
    collection of procedures for primality testing, gcd, multiplicative
    inverse and more. The package is part of a Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM)
    package which includes a PEM mailer, RSA key generator and Certificate
    generation tools."

    Source is in Modula-2, C, and assembler for Sun 3.  LongInt has
    also been ported to MS-DOS under Logitech Modula-2 and Turbo
    Assembler.  Availability:  free for university use (research and
    education); otherwise, a source license is required.  To obtain,
    write or email to:

        Markus Mueller
        Bertastrasse 7
        CH-8953 Dietikon
        Switzerland
        email:  mueller@komsys.tik.ethz.ch

bignum-1.2
    Henrik.Johansson@Nexus.Comm.SE

    Bignum package written in portable C.  Will in the future
    conform to the Common Lisp functions that handles integers.
    Currently includes +, -, *, /, exponentiation, "exptmod",
    comparison, random numbers, and gcd.
    Filename: bignum-1.2

ACM algorithm 567
    D.W. LOZIER and J.M. SMITH

    FORTRAN subroutines to do extended-precision floating point
    and normalized Legendre polynomials.
    ACM TRANSACTIONS ON MATHEMATICAL SOFTWARE 7,1 (MARCH, 1981)
    Obtained from research.att.com:netlib/toms/567.Z
    Filename: acm-algorithm-567-floating-point.fortran.Z

range
    O. Aberth and M. J. Schaefer

    C++ package to do extended-precision floating point arithmetic
    with programmer-defined precision.  Uses decimal representations
    internally.  Contains basic +, -, *, /, relational operators,
    ++, and a few functions like sin, cos, sqrt, log.  Documentation
    a trifle confusing.
    Obtained from math.tamu.edu:pub/range/range.tar.Z
    Filename: range.tar.Z

bsint
    Author unknown.

    Pre-alpha release of C++ big integer package.  
    Implements basic math operators, exponentiation, and modular 
    exponentiation.  Very skimpy documentation.
    See milton.u.washington.edu:/pub/user-supported/tzs/bsint.tar.Z

GNU Multiple Precision (GMP)
    GNU (Free Software Foundation) multiple precision package.
    I haven't looked at it yet.  This is current as of April 1992,
    but there may be a more recent version by the time you read 
    this.  This package is very widely available on FTP sites.
    Filename: gmp-1.3.2.tar.Z

libg++ - GNU's C++ class library
    Free Software Foundation

    Includes Integer and Rational classes.  Integer provides
    the usual C++ operators, plus exponentiation, gcd, lcm.
    Limited functionality, but documentation is better than most.
    Look for libg++-2.4.tar.gz on an FTP server near you.

Elliptic Curve Primality Proving 
    Francois Morain, France.

    Large package to prove the primality of any prime.
    Includes Inria's BIGNUM package. 
    Obtained from ftp.inria.fr (128.93.1.26).
    Filename: ecpp.V3.4.1.tar.Z

PGP (Pretty Good Privacy)
    Philip Zimmermann   prz@sage.cgd.ucar.EDU

    Crypto package that includes bignum routines in C.
    Assembly implementations available for several processors;
    said to be quite fast for numbers around 1000 bits in size.
    The crypto package violates RSA patents, but the bignum routines
    can be used without fear of legal repercussions.

Bell's Arbitrary Precision Calculator
    David I. Bell, Australia  (dbell@pdact.pd.necisa.oz.au)

    Arbitrary-precision calculator with good online help, C-like
    language, many builtin functions, support for integers,
    rational numbers (they work like floating point), complex numbers,
    matrices, strings, lists, files, "objects".  Includes 
    gcd, primality testing, even trig functions.  Recommended.
    (Large package, though.)  Obtained from comp.sources.unix.
    Filename: calc-1.24.7.tar.Z

Calc for GNU Emacs
    Dave Gillespie  (daveg@synaptics.com)
   
    Advanced calculator written in Emacs Lisp.  Includes arbitrary
    precision integers and floating point, bitwise operations,
    log and trig functions, financial functions, number theoretic
    functions including prime factorization, symbolic calculus,
    and an interface to GNUPLOT.
    Filename:  calc-2.02a.tar.Z

MPFUN: A Multiple Precision Floating Point Computation Package
    David H. Bailey   (dbailey@nas.nasa.gov)

    Package of Fortran subroutines to perform multiprecision
    floating point arithmetic.  Also includes a program that
    can automatically convert ordinary Fortran-77 code into code
    that calls the MPFUN routines.  
    Keith Briggs says: "It's a masterpiece, and the state of the art 
    as far as Fortran goes."
    Documentation in TeX format.  Unrestricted distribution
    allowed at no cost.
    Filenames: mpfun_fortran.tar.Z & mpfun_tex_papers.tar.Z

MPQS
    Mark S. Manasse  (msm@src.dec.com)  and Arjen Lenstra

    C program to factor numbers on a distributed network of
    heterogeneous machines.  June 1993 version.
    Filename:  mpqs-distributed-factoring.shar

Q
    Per Bothner (bothner@cygnus.com)

    A very high-level programming language written in C++.
    Where APL uses arrays to avoid explicit looping, Q uses
    generalized sequences (finite or infinite, stored or
    calculated on demand).  Q has lexical scoping, and some
    support for logical and constraint programming.  Q can
    be compiled (into C++), or interpreted interactively.
    Q contains a C++ hierarchical set of classes for representing 
    numbers (including infinite-precision rationals), functional
    closures, collections, files, symbols, and so on.  Uses GMP.
    There are also functions that implement Common Lisp and
    Scheme functionality.
    Obtained from ftp.cygnus.com
    Filenames:  Q-0.86.tar.gz, Q-misc.tar.gz, Q.doc.tar.gz

GNU bc
   Author: Philip A. Nelson (phil@cs.wwu.edu)
   GNU bc is an interactive algebraic language with arbitrary precision.
   GNU bc is almost the same as bc & dc in some Unixes.
   Filename: bc-1.02.tar.z  (for example, in GNU prep.ai.mit.edu:pub/gnu/)

bc & dc
  bc is an interactive processor for an arbitrary precision arithmetic
  language or just compiler/preprocessor for dc calculator with arbitrary
  precision; they comes with some Unixes.

Built-in support in other languages
    Various

    Multiple precision arithmetic is available in a number of 
    programming languages, such as Lisp and ABC (cf. mcsun.eu.net).
    Version 8 of the programming language Icon (Griswold's successor
    to SNOBOL4 available from cs.arizona.edu) has large integers.
    Perl (by Larry Wall, available from devvax.jpl.nasa.gov)
    includes source, in Perl, for such a package, but it's probably
    not suitable for serious use.
    For some of these, source code may be available.  This list is
    long enough, so I'm not going to pursue it aggressively.

Thanks to Keith Briggs and several others who contributed to this list.

See also other sites, such as nic.funet.fi:pub/sci/math/multiplePrecision/.

Mark Riordan   mrr@ripem.msu.edu


