Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uchinews!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!swiss.ans.net!solaris.cc.vt.edu!news.duke.edu!MathWorks.Com!yeshua.marcam.com!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!olivea!news.hal.COM!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!phr
From: phr@netcom.com (Paul Rubin)
Subject: Re: Best Code
Message-ID: <phrCw3E2M.L5J@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 261-4700 guest)
References: <131070.16770752@vircomm.vircomm.com>
Date: Tue, 13 Sep 1994 23:47:10 GMT
Lines: 53

In article <131070.16770752@vircomm.vircomm.com>,
Dani Goldenholz <dani.goldenholz@vircomm.com> wrote:
>"Of course, you can say: today's state of the art is, that choosen-plaintext
>needs 2^47 cycles to break DES."
>
>You're kidding! DES has all sorts of weaknesses. In 1977 it was breakable to
>those who could afford to make a really expensive computer. When I did my
>research program, we found a code called NewDES that was made in that year.
>It workes EXTREMELY fast...like a few seconds to encode massive amounts of
>data. It requires no hardware, as DES does in it's certifiable form. Also, it
>is like next to impossible to break newDES without a new type of computer
>that could do better than all the computers in the world today combined...

There are two ciphers floating around called newDES, both of which
superficially appear stronger than DES but in reality turn out to be
weaker.  It is not enough to have a long key length to have a good
block cipher, you have to know what you are doing.  And as the decades
have rolled by since DES's introduction, the evidence has mounted
that the DES designers knew what they were doing more than a lot
of the Johnny-come-latelies do.

>Anyway, I have heard of codes better than DES. There is RSA which is next to
>unbeatable. (so far) And what is this IDEA code I have heard about? Give me
>info on it...

IDEA is a 64-bit block cipher with 128 bit keys, used in PGP among
other places.  Its design principles are described in Lai and Massey's
book The Design of Block Ciphers.  No serious breaks have been found
it it yet, but it is still pretty new.  RSA has the advantage of being
able to use longer and longer keys as the attacks get better, so 1024
bit keys look secure today, but tomorrow who knows.  The first fielded
RSA system was used to safeguard US military plutonium and used 336
bit keys.  Then the inventors published a 430 bit challenge cipher
that they said would take 40 quadrillion years to break (it was broken
earlier this year, somewhat ahead of schedule).  Just a few years ago
people thought 512 bit keys were secure but now nobody knowledgable
would use a 512 bit RSA key to safeguard anything really valuable.

>Come on...I am looking for today's most highly regarded code. The cream of
>the crop, the head of the pack, the...you get the point.

Two people have told you already, today's most highly regarded
code is the same as the most highly regarded code of 50 years ago:
the one-time pad.

I don't mean to sound patronizing but if you want to learn about
good cryptography, you ought to do some outside reading rather
than just throwing broad questions at the newsgroup.  
Applied Cryptography, by Bruce Schneier, is one of the favorite
books mentioned here and would be an excellent place for you
to start.  I think you would like it very much.  It describes
IDEA, RSA, and other ciphers in detail, along with the general
principles behind these systems.
