Path: msuinfo!uchinews!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!uunet!mtnmath.mtnmath.com!not-for-mail
From: paul@mtnmath.mtnmath.com (Paul Budnik)
Newsgroups: alt.security.pgp,sci.crypt,sci.electronics,sci.physics
Subject: Re: Random Numbers.
Followup-To: alt.security.pgp,sci.crypt,sci.electronics,sci.physics
Date: 14 Sep 1994 10:32:40 -0700
Organization: Mountain Math Software, P. O. Box 2124, Saratoga. CA 95070
Lines: 77
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <357c3o$1sl@mtnmath.mtnmath.com>
References: <351ttq$t1j@mtnmath.mtnmath.com> <355lqf$n0i@eis.calstate.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: localhost.mtnmath.com
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
Xref: msuinfo alt.security.pgp:20680 sci.crypt:31938 sci.electronics:100875 sci.physics:93776

John S. McGowan (jomcgow@eis.calstate.edu) wrote:

: (in response to Paul Budnik)
: Random numbers:
: I now have to assume you are just joking...

: Your statement that one cannot define probability distributions (take
: the set {0,1) define m(0)=.5, m(1)=.5... take the set {0,1}^N with the
: product prob. measure... this is the Cantor group with the Cantor
: measure)... is nonsense.

I never said you could not define probability distributions. I said
you could not define absolute or irreducible randomness.

[...]

: Yet you said that you had no problem with classical prob. theory (but it
: depends on having a definition of a prob. measure which you just said
: was impossible within consistent mathematics).

You are badly distorting what I said. Defining a probability measure is
no problem. It is easy to define deterministic systems that satisfy any
recursive probability density function. Probability densities and
measures have nothing to do with randomness. They can be derived
to model chaotic *deterministic* systems when we have incomplete
knowledge of the initial state. Probability distributions talk about
the relative occurrence or frequency of different events. They say
nothing at all about randomness.

: You claim the the only definition of prob. and randomness is that of
: recursive sequences which satisfy certain "properties" (as they are
: recursive...

I never said anything remotely like this. You seem to be assuming that
if we can define a probability density we have a definition of random.
This is not true. Probability densities refer to frequencies. Whether
events that satisfy a given distribution are deterministic or random is
a separate question.

: actually they are not, what they are are sequences which
: pass any recursive test of randomness... in particular, they are
: non-recursive, unless they fail some recursive random tests...
: and you say that prob. cannot be defined without using this.).

The above is quite confused but I can assure you that any attempt to
equate nonrecursive with random will lead to absurdities. These are
radically different ideas. For example the Godel numbers of all TMs that
do not halt is not a recursive or recursively enumerable sequence.
However it is certainly not random. In fact is is the complement of
a recursively enumerable sequence namely the Godel numbers of all
Turing Machines that do halt.

: Have you any idea (mathematically) what a prob. space is (and its
: definition... and the definition exists) in mathematics? Or what a
: random variable is in mathematics (an element from a prob. space) or how
: to calculate an average or prob. that "such and such" occurs (all well
: defined in mathematics)?

: Apparently not.

I have used statistics professionally for quite a few years.

: Here is my definition of a random sequence... an element from a
: probability space where the space is a space of sequences (check out
: some math books)... and for an infinite sequence (with what people
: usually take to be the prob. measure for non-redundancy):

[...]

There are plenty of good definitions in statistical theory. What you
apparently fail to understand is that none of them are adequate to
define the notion of absolute or irreducible randomness. You can
derive probability theory based on frequency of occurrence in *deterministic*
models or you can *assume* probability density functions from the start.
There is no other way to define probability theory rigorously.

Paul Budnik
