Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!swiss.ans.net!newstf01.cr1.aol.com!search01.news.aol.com!not-for-mail
From: subnso@aol.com (Subnso)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: NETWORK SECURITY JOURNAL
Date: 15 Sep 1994 03:50:02 -0400
Organization: America Online, Inc. (1-800-827-6364)
Lines: 78
Sender: news@search01.news.aol.com
Message-ID: <358uba$2jf@search01.news.aol.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: search01.news.aol.com

                        A n n o u n c e m e n t

     November 1994 Network Security Observations will be out with its
inaugural issue.  Network Security Observations is expected to be the
leading international journal on computer network security for the
science, research and professional community.  Every annual volume
contains five issues, each offering ample space for vigorously reviewed
academic and research papers of significant and lasting importance and a
wealth of other network security information, including network security
patches and other technical information, related governmental documents
(international), discussions about ethics and privacy aspects, the
'Clipper chip' and other cryptologic issues, viruses, privacy enhanced
mail, protocols, international data security
and privacy legislation, harmonization of computer security evaluation
criteria, information security management, access management, transborder
dataflow, edi security, risk analysis, mission critical applications,
integrity issues, etc. 

	Its Editor-in-Chief, Dr. Bertil Fortrie, also the Chairman of
Working Group 11.9 - IT Related Crime Investigations - of the
International Federation for Information Processing, is assisted by a team
of international seasoned experts forming the Journal's prestigeous Review
Board.  Among them: Emeritus Prof. Dr. Harold Highland (Editor-in-Chief
Emeritus of Elsevier Advanced Technology's Computers & Security Journal
and President of Compulit Inc., United States), Dr. Willis Ware (Security
Counsel, The Rand Corporation, Santa Monica, United States), Prof. Dr.
William Caelli (Head - School of Datacommunications, Faculty of
Information Technology of the Queensland University of Technology,
Brisbane, Australia),  Prof. Eugene Spafford (Faculty of Computer Science
of the Purdue University, West Lafayette, United States), William List
(Partner, The Kingswell Partnership, London, United Kingdom), John Beatson
(Manager Information Security & Risk Management, Databank Systems Ltd.,
Wellington, New Zealand), Ross Paul (Manager Corporate Information
Security, The Worldbank, Washington D.C., United States).

If and when appropriate reports of major international conferences will be
included, as well as information made available by governments, agencies
and international and supranational organizations.  Network Security
Observations is published in the English language, and distributed
Worldwide. The publication does not feature commercial announcements.
National and international organizers of dedicated conferences, congresses
and seminars can offer calls for papers and invitations to participate. 
Relevant posting from other publishers announcing new books, etc. are
welcomed as well.

Network Security Observations provides the in depth and detailed look that
is essential for the network system operator, network system
administrator, edp auditor, legal counsel, computer science researcher,
network security manager, product developer, forensic data expert,
legislator, public prosecutor, etc., including the wide range of
specialists of the intelligence community, the investigative branches and
the military, the financial services industry and the bank community.  
Network Security Observations serves as the primary source of dedicated
information for every governmental department, service, branch and office,
directly or indirectly involved with computer networks, in every country.

Subscriptions are available as of now. The inaugural issue will be
available by November 1, 1994. Applicants ordering subscription by
electronic mail before November 1, 1994 are entitled to a special
inaugural rebate of 30 %, paying only US $ 195.  Special
academic/educational discounts and membership discounts for members of
IEEE,  IFIP (Technical Committees and Working Groups) and governmental
agencies and branches are available upon request.  Since Network Security
Observations is a not-for-profit journal, we are sorry to reject requests
for trial orders. 

Order now by sending an email message to subnso@aol.com .

Alternatively applicants may write to: Network Security Observations,
suite 400, 1825 I Street, NW. Washington DC 20006, United States. 

Network Security Observations is the only authoritative international
research journal fully dedicated to the security and protection of
computer networks.   As a courtesy to your fellow computer network users,
please forward this announcement to any list service and netnews board
available to you.

 
