Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!EU.net!uknet!festival!leeds.ac.uk!bradford.ac.uk!S.J.Shepherd
From: S.J.Shepherd@bradford.ac.uk (SJ SHEPHERD)
Subject: REAL virtual one time pads
Message-ID: <1994Sep16.085724.2055@bradford.ac.uk>
Lines: 33
Organization: University of Bradford, UK
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL9]
Date: Fri, 16 Sep 1994 08:57:24 GMT


Further to the recent waffle about making one time pads from
NON random numbers, there do exist genuine methods of "amplifying
randomness".  One such is the Blum generator.  Take two large
primes p amd q, both congruent to 3 mod 4 (for number theoretic
reasons that are too long-winded to go into here) and form the
product n = pq.  Choose any residue in the ring Zn as a starting
"seed".  To generate the otp, successively square the residue
mod n.  By taking the log n least significant bits of each residue,
a binary sequence can be formed that is random in the strict sense
that, given an unlimited amount of sequence (less than the period)
there in no better way of predicting whether the next bit to the
right (or left) is a 1 or a 0 than by tossing a fair coin.  Bearing
in mind that the period of the Blum generator in lambda(lambda(n))
where lambda is the number-theoretic Carmichael function, the
periods are enormous.  For example, if n ~ 512 bits, then the period
is of the order of 2^500.  Each squaring contributes 9 bits to the
otp and generating 1 million residues per second will not exhaust
the period within the projected lifetime of the universe.  The key
is merely the 512-bit seed residue from which an unlimited amount
of "randomness" can be generated.  The concept of a public-key
cipher - the QRC (quadratic residue cipher) - that uses this
principle AND exhibits NO leakage of partial information (unlike
RSA which leaks like a sieve) is fully explained in my paper in
Cryptologia (June or July last year).

Simon J Shepherd, PhD
Director of Research
Cryptography and Computer Security Research Group
The University, Bradford, UK.


