Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!dsinc!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!george.inhouse.compuserve.com!news.inhouse.compuserve.com!compuserve.com!news
From: Jim Demberger <74425.1642@CompuServe.COM>
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Virtual One-Time-Pads
Date: 16 Sep 1994 22:15:44 GMT
Organization: none-set
Lines: 122
Message-ID: <35d5eg$e8c$2@mhade.production.compuserve.com>

If anyone discovered that the 01Challenge file was a plant, they never
posted it here in the newsgroup.  Any one could decrypt the file just
by entering "01challenge" for the Session Phrase when they ran the
PowerBASIC compiled version of VOTPCRYP.EXE.  As Jim Gillogly found
out the hard way, the challenge decrypts to some UUENCODEd plain text
from the VOTP11s.ZIP file that I had posted.
 
Following is a line from Jim's article outlining his decryption:
 
"OK -- the encryption key is 01 ca ee, and the plaintext is:"
 
Close but close only counts if you are playing horseshoes.  The
encryption key is the virtual one-time-pad created when you run the
program.  The tree pairs of hex character are the characters used to
decrypt the three sub-key pointers in the header block to produce the
sub-key pointers (line d) used to create the VOTP as outlined below:
 
a)  Session Phrase            01challenge
b)  Session codes        hex  01c a  e  e    decimal 001  202  238
c)  Header pointers      hex  64  5d  15     decimal 100  093  021
d)  Line a) XOR line b)  hex  65  97  fb     decimal 101  151  251
 
Following steps will produce the decrypt challenge file:
 
  1  From the DOS prompt key VOTPCRYP and press Enter
  2  Press Enter to pass Intro Screen Display
  3  At the first prompt on the Enter Session Phrase screen press
     D key
  4  At the Enter new Session Display prompt key "01challenge" or
     the hex characters 01 ca ee (either UC or LC, spaces ignored)
  5  At the VOTPCRYP Menu Screen press T if you want to time decryption.
     (unless you have a slow system you'll get an error message that
     indicate that time was too short to get a valid CharPerSec)
  6  At the VOTPCRYP Menu Screen press D for decrypt option (hidden
     switch, press C key and you get a decimal display of the actual
     pointer values and the three sets in random order of 256 codes
     used by the three sub-keys, hidden switch for encryption is F)
  7  At the input file prompt key CHAL0912.ENC and press Enter
  8  At the output file prompt key CHAL0912.DEC and press Enter
 
The planted clue to the decryption was the first two lines of the
header block of the CHAL0912.ENC file that read as follows:
 
VOTP.HDR Block for VOTPCRYP    01Challenge        100 093 021<
2  DO NOT MAKE ANY CHANGES TO THE FIRST LINE OF THIS BLOCK   <
 
I did what the second line says not to do - the 01Challenge Session
Phrase was added to the VOTP.HDR pattern file before I encrypt the
plain text.  If you want to "hide in plain sight" a Session Phrase,
put in lines 3 thru 8 of the header pattern file.
 
Someone has said that I had an arrogant attitude in response to some
of my postings.  If I get arrogance from someone I am liable to return
it.
 
OKay - arrogant mode = ON.
 
It is apparent from some postings that the writer had made the
assumption that the VOTPCRYP program is just something that some
newbie thinks he has invented.  The first version of the program that
I now call VOTPCRYP was source code that appeared in an article I
wrote for 80Micro magazine.  This article appeared in the October 1982
issue, the source code was written using an early version of TRS-80
Basic that didn't even have a XOR - had to emulate an XOR with add and
subtract instructions.  Quite a few versions of the program were
distributed thru 1992 as Freeware or Shareware under several different
names.
 
From the VOTPCRYP.DOC file - "The VOTPCRYP program is not a finished
product; it is a fully functional prototype that can be used to create
a secure encryption system for anyone or for any activity."  Apparently
the program does produce relatively secure encryption since only one
well qualified crypanalyst came up with a decryption of the challenge
file.  I'm looking for constructive criticism - for example, some
earlier versions used sub-keys with prime number lengths of 239, 241
and 251 and recycled from 1 up to key-length.  Version 1.1 cycles up
from 1 to 256 and then down from 255 to a value that results in
sub-keys with lengths of 506, 508 and 510 before recycling.  Instead
of 506, 508, 510, how about the prime numbers 499, 503, 509?  Do prime
length sub-keys produce "better" VOTPs than those produced with the
longer non-prime sub-keys?
 
I have been reading the CRYPT FAQ since it gets cross-posted to some
Compuserve fora/forums.  Found a lot of the references to be totally
useless since it lists books/references that can usually be found only
in college/university/specialized libraries.  The FAC is written
in a condescending know-it-all style really turns me off.
 
Someone EMailed me a message pointing out that quoting from an EMail
message in a newsgroup was considered to be an Internet etiquette
NO-NO and might be illegal in some countries.  As far as being illegal
in other countries, that is their problem; I've got enough of a
problem with ITAR.  If someone sends me an EMail message with
information that is pertinent to an on-going discussion in this
newsgroup, I may quote the message in a posting to the newsgroup. If
they were just trying to impress or intimidate me with there "smarts",
I think the newsgroup should have the opportunity to see what they
wrote.  Internet/Usenet (unmoderated Newsgroups) is anarchy, attitude
seems to be that rules are only made to be broken.  I have an attitude
about making rules, don't may rules if there is no way that they can
be enforced.
 
I did make one mistake, I should have UUENCODEd and posted the whole
VOTPCRYP package with my original posting.  Apparently it is normal to
hit newsgroups with very large files, understandable since most
Internet/Usenet users are paying nothing or very little for their
access. Unfortunately, I have to use Compuserve where large files
equates to large dollars.  Supposed to have had Internet thru FreeNet
here by September - I think Jan 95 is more likely.  FreeNet might be
free but I can't afford the time my system and phone line would be
waiting for access to one of the nodes.
 
RTFM - the VOTPCRYP.DOC file that is.
RRTFP - RR = run and read, P = progrum.
 
Set arrogant mode = OFF.  And have a nice day.  Soon as I can get
around to it, I'll post a new challenge.
-- 
Jim Demberger          Internet:  74425.1642@compuserve.com
 
 
 
