Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.org.eff.talk,talk.politics.crypto
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!convex!news.duke.edu!MathWorks.Com!yeshua.marcam.com!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!csusac!csus.edu!netcom.com!grady
From: grady@netcom.com (Grady Ward)
Subject: Re: RSADSI Warning
Message-ID: <gradyCw8yuM.K1o@netcom.com>
Organization: +1 707 826 7715
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
References: <strnlghtCw8x5I.DIq@netcom.com>
Date: Sat, 17 Sep 1994 00:03:45 GMT
Lines: 49
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:32029 comp.org.eff.talk:40025 talk.politics.crypto:7252

David Sternlight (strnlght@netcom.com) wrote:

: The notice below is being posted by request of Jim Bidzos, President of
: RSADSI and PKP. I have no business connection with RSADSI except as a
: licensee of RSAREF.                 

:                             WARNING NOTICE

:     It has come to RSA Data Security's attention that certain RSA
: trade secrets, in the form of confidential and proprietary source
: code, have been misappropriated and disclosed.  Please be advised that
: these acts, as well as any retransmission or use of this
: misappropriated source code is a violation of the Uniform Trade
: Secrets Act and various other state and federal laws.  Any person or
: entity that acquires, discloses or uses this information is subject to
: criminal and civil penalties including an injunction, compensatory
: damages, punitive damages and payment of RSA's attorneys fees.

:     RSA considers this misappropriation to be most serious.  Not only
: is this act a violation of law, but its publication is a gross abuse
: of the Internet.  RSA has begun an investigation and will proceed with
: legal action against anyone found to have violated its intellectual
: property rights.

: -- 
: People who post newsgroup flames
: Must have flammable gas for brains.
: Burma Shave.





Well it's been disseminated world-wide by now. Maybe we'll see how good
those anonymous remailers are, anyway.  But if I were the perp I would
were more about the minimum 4 1/2 year sentence for violating US State
Department export laws.  Maybe Freeh will now demand every post be
screened by State before transmission in interstate commerce -- after
all, he will argue, it's not protected speech, it's software.

But I'll take the pledge!  I promise to get rid of every copy of RC4
source that I have and forget I even saw it. Will YOU take the pledge
Sternlight?

-- 
Grady Ward       |  For information and free samples on | "Look!" 
grady@netcom.com |  royalty-free Moby natural language  |  -- Madame Sosostris
+1 707 826 7715  |  lexicons (largest in the world),    |     A91F2740531E6801
(voice/24hr FAX) |  run:        finger grady@netcom.com |     5B117D084B916B27
