Path: msuinfo!agate!overload.lbl.gov!lll-winken.llnl.gov!decwrl!svc.portal.com!shell.portal.com!hfinney
From: hfinney@shell.portal.com (Hal)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: RSADSI Warning
Date: 17 Sep 1994 23:32:40 GMT
Organization: Portal Communications (shell)
Lines: 50
Message-ID: <35fuao$6h6@news1.shell>
References: <strnlghtCw8x5I.DIq@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: jobe.shell.portal.com

>                            WARNING NOTICE
>
>    It has come to RSA Data Security's attention that certain RSA
>trade secrets, in the form of confidential and proprietary source
>code, have been misappropriated and disclosed.  Please be advised that
>these acts, as well as any retransmission or use of this
>misappropriated source code is a violation of the Uniform Trade
>Secrets Act and various other state and federal laws.  Any person or
>entity that acquires, discloses or uses this information is subject to
>criminal and civil penalties including an injunction, compensatory
>damages, punitive damages and payment of RSA's attorneys fees.

I went down to the library to look up the Uniform Trade Secrets Act.
This is a "model" state statute which has been enacted by many states.
In California it is found in the Civil Code at section 3426.  3426.1 has
some relevant definitions:

"As used in this title, unless the context requires otherwise:

   (a) 'Improper means' includes theft, bribery, misrepresentation,
   breach or inducement of a breach of a duty to maintain secrecy, or
   espionage through electronic or other means.  Reverse engineering or
   independent derivation alone shall not be considered improper means.

   (b) 'Misappropriation' means:
      (1) Acquisition of a trade secret of another by a person
      who knows or has reason to know that the trade secret was
      acquired by improper means; or
      (2) Disclosure or use of a trade secret of another without
      express or implied consent by a person who:
	 (A) Used improper means to acquire knowledge of the trade
	 secret; or
	 (B) At the time of disclosure or use, knew or had reason to
	 know that his or her knowledge of the trade secret was:
	    (i) Derived from or through a person who had utilized
	    improper means to acquire it;
	    (ii) Acquired under circumstances giving rise to a duty to
	    maintain its secrecy or limit its use; or
	    (iii) Derived from or through a person who owed a duty to
	    the person seeking relief to maintain its secrecy or limit
	    its use; or
	 (C) Before a material change of his or her position, knew or
	 had reason to know that it was a trade secret and that
	 knowledge of it has been acquired by accident or mistake."

I would guess that people considering using RC4 should be concerned
about part 2B of the misappropriation definition.  If you know or have
reason to know that the code was stolen then using it would be
misappropriation.  OTOH if the code was reverse-engineered, it should
be OK to use it.
