Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!lll-winken.llnl.gov!overload.lbl.gov!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!swiss.ans.net!solaris.cc.vt.edu!vtaix.cc.vt.edu!cs320402
From: cs320402@vtaix.cc.vt.edu (Chris Inacio)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: The field of cryptography
Date: 18 Sep 1994 08:09:28 GMT
Organization: Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, Virginia
Lines: 47
Message-ID: <35gsjo$qep@solaris.cc.vt.edu>
References: <mpjCvtHBH.M4o@netcom.com>  <34psab$bl1@news.umbc.edu> <35bfeu$43n@news.cs.tulane.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: vtaix.cc.vt.edu
NNTP-Posting-User: cs320402
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL0]

Eric Lamberson (ericlamb@mailhost.tcs.tulane.edu) wrote:
: : I wonder if the NSA offers apprenticeships?  :-)

: : Well, they do have student co-ops which seem to be a 
: : pretty good deal.  Applicants have to go through the 
: : usual background check of course, and that takes quite
: : a while, like six or nine months.


: Or if you have an MS in math or computer science, you could 
: simply apply.  You must have a squeeky clean background though.
: The background check frequently takes longer than nine months, 
: particluarly if you have moved around a great deal.  There are
: also some immediate disqualifiers such as mental instability, 
: a history of frequent illegal drug use, relatives or other 
: connections to certain foreign countries, etc. you get the idea.

: -Eric.

NSA does have their own school that they'll send you to so they may teach
you their Cryptographic techniques.  You'll need a 3.3, as I recall, in 
engineering or a 3.7 in math to get a job with them after college.  If you're
in high school, apply to their scholarship program, much easier to get into
than getting a job with them afterwards.  However, to get into cryptography
they require at least a 700 SAT math score, from high school that is, and
they'll send you to an "appropriate" school.  You'll have much better chances
of getting a job with them if you're a minority, they want minorities with
techinical degrees.  If I recall the name of the place they'll send you after
college, it's the National Cryptographic Institute.  Their scholarship program
is very nice though.  They pay for your college and your text books and
supplies, including a computer if necessary.  They also pay you to go to school
In the summer you'll work at Fort Meade in Maryland, their home, and they'll
pay for your Apartment and give you a per diem, (which is really high.)
Negatives: can't talk about your job, (but you can work on school stuff I 
think,) if you skip class, you're supposed to call Maryland so they can take it
out of your pay.  Any other questions about getting an education in crypto-
graphy, with NSA?  They don't want too many places to teach cryptography,
because then they don't monopolize all the cool new ideas and classify them
quickly enough.

All of this is second hand knowledge, I DON'T work for NSA.  I know people
who do, but I'm not supposed to say who, they don't seem to like that.

I have also gotten their recruitment stuff, if you call they'll send it, but
they have a minor hiring freeze on.  My "friend" gave it to me.

hope this helps, later
