Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto,comp.security.misc
Path: msuinfo!uchinews!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!news.sprintlink.net!crash!straits
From: straits@crash.cts.com (Stewart Strait)
Subject: Re: Legality of black-market R-C-4 code
Organization: CTS Network Services (CTSNET), San Diego, CA
Date: Sun, 18 Sep 1994 08:07:01 GMT
Message-ID: <CwBFvr.DDt@crash.cts.com>
Followup-To: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto,comp.security.misc
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
References: <Cw7H1x.8sC@chinet.chinet.com> <35d5qb$315@tools.near.net>
Sender: news@crash.cts.com (news subsystem)
Nntp-Posting-Host: crash.cts.com
Lines: 41
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:32075 talk.politics.crypto:7280 comp.security.misc:11763

Barry Margolin (barmar@nic.near.net) wrote:
: In article <Cw7H1x.8sC@chinet.chinet.com> schneier@chinet.chinet.com (Bruce Schneier) writes:
: >But now the code is public.  It was first posted on cypherpunks; it was
: >crossposted to sci.crypt.  It is available on Mark Riordan's ftp site, and
: >probably many others.  Does RSADSI have any legal recourse against people
: >who use and distribute the cipher who have not signed any agreement not to?

: I'm not a lawyer, but I don't think they have any claim against the people
: who received the code innocently.  On the other hand, in the world of
: tangible goods, isn't it a crime to receive and distribute stolen goods,
: even if you weren't involved in the original theft and weren't aware that
: the goods were stolen?
I'm not a lawyer either, but I think you must be either aware or in
a situation where 'a reasonable person' would be aware, in order to
be guilty of receiving stolen goods. This is a general rule for
all crimes. If you turn on a light switch and a bomb goes off as a
result, you're innocent of the related crimes unless you knew about
the bomb or unless a reasonable person would have known. I presume
the application of this rule has counterintuitive quirks, so don't
count my advice too heavily.

: By analogy, wouldn't the same be true of
: intellectual property?

Let's assume that you read a stolen trade secret on USENET, and that
you know it was stolen and everybody can prove you knew it was
stolen. In this case my previous point is not applicable.
I still suspect that, as long as the trade secret is not patented or
copyrighted (and trade secrets sometimes can't be), you can use the
secret at will. 

If the law forbids this, then every trade secret that gets exposed
to the public view turns into something a lot like a patent. If
the secret is something too broad to patent, the law would still
let only the original owner use it. There must be something to
stop things from getting out of hand this way.

I'll make a wild guess: maybe a trade secret is not the property
of the original owner once it becomes public, but the acts of
stealing the secret or making it public are torts against the
owner and crimes.
