Path: msuinfo!agate!hilbert.dnai.com!nic.scruz.net!spud.Hyperion.COM!spud.Hyperion.COM!not-for-mail
From: koreth@spud.Hyperion.COM (Steven Grimm)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: FBI to unveil new encryption system (parody)
Date: 18 Sep 1994 12:43:45 -0700
Organization: Hyperion, Mountain View, CA, USA
Lines: 46
Message-ID: <35i59h$944@spud.Hyperion.COM>
NNTP-Posting-Host: spud.hyperion.com

I wrote this a few months ago for rec.humor.funny and just got a rejection.
Lots of the readers here will probably get a kick out of it:

---
WASHINGTON, DC -- Buoyed by the passage of last week's telecommunications
bill outlawing the use of private electronic encryption technologies, the
FBI will unveil tomorrow the next in its series of measures to make the
phone lines and airwaves safe for law enforcement.

The new system, known within the agency as "Clipperese," is an attempt to
address the problem of spoken codes.  "At this very moment, wanton criminals
are using our public telephone system to plan murder, rape, drugs, and the
production of pornography," said FBI spokeswoman Carla Watt.  "Our best
weapon against them is the wiretap.  And we can now tap calls placed through
electronic encryption systems.  But we don't have a way to stop people from
using their heads.

"Today's criminals are conducting business over open phone lines.  Sometimes
even on the street, in plain sight.  And some of the more clever, insidious
criminal elements are using techniques like codebooks, obscure foreign
languages no doubt taught to them by immigrants, and even mumbling to throw
us off the track.  As soon as we figure out one of these techniques, they
switch to another one.  We have to put a stop to that."

Clipperese is intended to standardize these spoken encryption methods in a
simple, secure way.  FBI sources declined to reveal the complete language,
for fear it might be scrutinized, but were willing to supply examples of
sentences in Clipperese.  Based on a technology known as SkipLatin,
developed by NSA scientists over a period of twelve years, Clipperese
transforms ordinary English speech into a secure transmission that can only
be decoded by trained law enforcement officials.  "We kill the President
tomorrow" becomes "Ee-way ill-kay ee-thay esident-pray omorrow-tay" in
Clipperese.  The FBI has subjected Clipperese to inspection by six leading
linguists, who pronounced it undecipherable after a lengthy examination and
beer bash.

"We feel this represents a reasonable compromise between the public's right
to hold secure conversations and law enforcement's right to listen to
anything it likes," said Watt.  "And of course, we aren't mandating anything
here.  Criminals are free to continue using their cumbersome codebooks or
foreign languages.  But we can't see why they'd want to, when we're making
Clipperese available without charge.  I mean, you'd just have to be dumb."

--
Steven Grimm
koreth@hyperion.com
