Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,comp.security.misc,alt.privacy
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!grady
From: grady@netcom.com (Grady Ward)
Subject: Re: RC4 Algorithm revealed.
Message-ID: <gradyCwCv6J.ACp@netcom.com>
Followup-To: sci.crypt,alt.security,comp.security.misc,alt.privacy
Organization: +1 707 826 7715
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
References: <sternCvKL4B.Hyy@netcom.com> <jonadamsCwBHEI.GzI@netcom.com> <gradyCwBxMq.GtD@netcom.com> <strnlghtCwCL68.Bzz@netcom.com>
Date: Mon, 19 Sep 1994 02:35:07 GMT
Lines: 107
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:32119 alt.security:18838 comp.security.misc:11780 alt.privacy:19050

David Sternlight (strnlght@netcom.com) wrote:
: there was a violation. Since RSADSI asserts that every copy is covered by a
: "no reverse engineering" agreement, either theft or breach of a duty to
: maintain secrecy must have been involved, and thus improper means must have
: been used.

This may be true *if* shrink-wrap license creates a contract. 
I don't think this is settled yet, especially if no action clearly
denoting a "meeting of minds" is required on the part of the
licensee. The burden of proof still lies with RSA; since the
poster was anonymous it probably will never be known whether the
code was improperly obtained or not,meaning that RSA may have a
rather difficult time meeting the legal tests required for an
injunction. (for legal advice, consult an attorney)

Just as another data point, here are the *criminal* penalties for
trade secret theft in California:

$ 499c
 
499c.  (a) As used in this section:
   (1) "Access" means to approach, a way or means of
approaching, nearing, admittance to, including to instruct,
communicate with, store information in, or retrieve information
from a computer system or computer network.
   (2) "Article" means any object, material, device or substance
or copy thereof, including any writing, record, recording,
drawing, sample, specimen, prototype, model, photograph,
micro-organism, blueprint, map, or tangible representation of
computer program or information, including both human and
computer readable information and information while in transit.
 
   (3) "Benefit" means gain or advantage, or anything regarded
by the beneficiary as gain or advantage, including benefit to
any other person or entity in whose welfare he is interested.
   (4) "Computer system" means a machine or collection of
machines, one or more of which contain computer programs and
information, that performs functions, including, but not limited
to, logic, arithmetic, information storage and retrieval,
communications, and control.
   (5) "Computer network" means an interconnection of two or
more computer systems.
   (6) "Computer program" means an ordered set of instructions
or statements, and related information that, when automatically
executed in actual or modified form in a computer system, causes
it to perform specified functions.
   (7) "Copy" means any facsimile, replica, photograph or other
reproduction of an article, and any note, drawing or sketch made
of or from an article.
   (8) "Representing" means describing, depicting, containing,
constituting, reflecting or recording.
   (9) "Trade secret" means the whole or any portion or phase of
any scientific or technical information, design, process,
procedure, formula, computer program or information stored in a
computer, information in transit, or improvement which is secret
and is not generally available to the public, and which gives
one who uses it an advantage over competitors who do not know of
or use the trade secret; and a trade secret shall be presumed
to be secret when the owner thereof takes measures to prevent it
from becoming available to persons other than those selected by
the owner to have access thereto for limited purposes.
   (b) Every person is guilty of theft who, with intent to
deprive or withhold from the owner thereof the control of a
trade secret, or with an intent to appropriate a trade secret to
his or her own use or to the use of another, does any of the
following:
   (1) Steals, takes, carries away, or uses without
authorization a trade secret.
   (2) Fraudulently appropriates any article representing a
trade secret entrusted to him.
   (3) Having unlawfully obtained access to the article, without
authority makes or causes to be made a copy of any article
representing a trade secret.
   (4) Having obtained access to the article through a
relationship of trust and confidence, without authority and in
breach of the obligations created by such relationship makes or
causes to be made, directly from and in the presence of the
article, a copy of any article representing a trade secret.
   (c) Every person who promises or offers or gives, or
conspires to promise or offer to give, to any present or former
agent, employee or servant of another a benefit as an
inducement, bribe or reward for conveying, delivering or
otherwise making available an article representing a trade
secret owned by his or her present or former principal, employer
or master, to any person not authorized by such owner to
receive or acquire the same and every person who being a present
or former agent, employee, or servant, solicits, accepts,
receives or takes a benefit as an inducement, bribe or reward
for conveying, delivering or otherwise making available an
article representing a trade secret owned by his or her present
or former principal, employer or master, to any person not
authorized by such owner to receive or acquire the same is
punishable by imprisonment in the state prison, or in a county
jail not exceeding one year, or by fine not exceeding five
thousand dollars ($5,000), or by both such fine and such
imprisonment.
   (d) In a prosecution for a violation of this section it shall
be no defense that the person so charged, returned or intended
to return the article.



-- 
Grady Ward       |  For information and free samples on | "Look!" 
grady@netcom.com |  royalty-free Moby natural language  |  -- Madame Sosostris
+1 707 826 7715  |  lexicons (largest in the world),    |     A91F2740531E6801
(voice/24hr FAX) |  run:        finger grady@netcom.com |     5B117D084B916B27
