Path: msuinfo!agate!spool.mu.edu!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!ai-lab!bdugan
From: bdugan@gnu.ai.mit.edu (Bill Dugan)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,comp.security.misc,alt.privacy
Subject: Re: RC4 Algorithm revealed.
Date: 19 Sep 1994 00:07:31 GMT
Organization: Free Software Foundation / Cambridge, MA  USA
Lines: 53
Message-ID: <35iko3INNhjj@life.ai.mit.edu>
References: <gradyCwBxMq.GtD@netcom.com> <35hs51$5ep@news.sprintlink.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: spiff.gnu.ai.mit.edu
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:32112 alt.security:18835 comp.security.misc:11775 alt.privacy:19044

In article <35hs51$5ep@news.sprintlink.net>,
Paul Ferguson <paul@hawksbill.sprintmrn.com> wrote:
>
>Forgive my poor memory, but wasn't there a court ruling with regards
>to 'reverse-engineering' fairly recently that involved a couple of
>major electronic games makers (SEGA)? If I recall correctly, the
>court ruled in favor of the 'reverse-engineers'... No?

Please forgive my poor memory also, but it indicates that you are correct.
Acclaim, a major videogame cartridge manufacturer, reverse-engineered the
code in the ROMs of the Sega Genesis videogame console.  The ROM code looked
at the code in the first few bytes of the cartridge ROM.  I am not sure 
whether any code in the cartridge ROM is executed at this point, but among
other things the Genesis looks for the word SEGA in the cartridge ROM.  If
this is not present, the system will lock up.

The point is, Acclaim reverse-engineered the Genesis ROM code so they could
manufacture their own Sega Genesis-compatible cartridges and not have to
pay Sega to manufacture the cartridges, go through Sega's licensing
procedures, and so on.

Sega sued Acclaim in federal (I believe) court in the US and won.  The judge
was snowed, basically.  If I remember correctly, Sega said that Acclaim 
violated *copyright* law because when disassembling the Genesis ROM code,
Acclaim's engineers made a printout of the disassembled code.  Sega's
lawyers also stated that reverse-engineering would still have been possible
without a violation of copyright law, because Acclaim's reverse-engineering
team could have used "clean-room procedures" and "peeled" off layers of 
Genesis ROM chips to deduce a way of creating Genesis-compatible cartridges.
Thus, Acclaim's action didn't fall under any fair use category, and was 
a violation of copyright law.

Acclaim appealed and the appeals court threw out the lower court's verdict,
saying it was preposterous.  I do not believe that this case has yet reached
the U.S. Supreme Court, but then what do I know.

Note that if a judge believed that copyright law was violated by printing
out a disassembly of the ROMs, another judge could likely be convinced that
copyright law is violated when you copy *memory* from disk to RAM, say.

The main point is that, for now, in the United States, it's OK to disassemble
code to reverse-engineer it.  But the pathetic state of computer-savviness
amongst US judges would make this a gamble for anyone who wanted to create
a commercial product based (to any degree) on reverse-engineered code.  
A ruling could occur tomorrow that reverses all the above.

Disclaimer:  I work for a company that makes Sega Genesis games and thus
I suppose I work for a competitor of all the above companies.  Plus, my
memory is incomplete and my notes aren't in front of me.  Let the reader
beware.  :(  My views are not those of my employer, etc. etc.

bdugan@gnu.ai.mit.edu

