Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!lyra.csx.cam.ac.uk!rja14
From: rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (Ross Anderson)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.security.misc
Subject: Re: Legality of black-market R-C-4 code
Date: 19 Sep 1994 12:20:57 GMT
Organization: U of Cambridge Computer Lab, UK
Lines: 38
Message-ID: <35jvn9$1sf@lyra.csx.cam.ac.uk>
References: <Cw7H1x.8sC@chinet.chinet.com> <gradyCw8xv2.Hn9@netcom.com> <PERRY.94Sep17205006@snark.imsi.com> <strnlghtCwD3B8.Lzy@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: ouse.cl.cam.ac.uk
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:32149 comp.security.misc:11790

Sternlight writes:

>            if we accept RSADSI's statement that all legal copies carry
> a license agreement not to publish or reverse engineer, then the only way
> the person leaking could have done so is improperly - either by theft or by
> violating the license agreement.

Not another Little American - someone please take him aside and explain that 
countries outside America actually have the temerity to make their own laws!

In the European Union, for example, copyright law explicitly permits any 
puchaser of software to decompile it. The rationale is that this may be 
necessary to understand how it works, to make other software compatible with 
it, or to do bug fixes and maintenance generally.

So if RC4 was decompiled here (or in Ireland, the Netherlands, France, Denmark,
Germany, Luxembourg, Belgium, Spain, Portugal, Italy or Greece), then it is 
unclear that a criminal offence, a tort or a breach of contract was committed.

I also understand that in the UK, posting something to a bulletin board does not
constitute `export', so that side of things also falls down. In fact, the
relevant export control falls away from anything which is put on sale in the 
shops or otherwise made available in an uncontrolled manner to the public.

Much the same probably applies in many other countries too. There was an 
article in a recent `Computer Law and Security Report', for example, about the 
almost complete absence of legal protection for software in Brazil.

So the NSA can't conclude that US law must have been broken. If they want to 
keep crypto within that particular security perimeter, they had better forbid 
US firms from exporting any crypto whatsoever, whether DES or Caesar, and 
whether in PEM type products or embedded in ATMs, point of sale terminals, 
prepayment electricity meters, satellite TV decoders, software copy protection 
schemes - or for that matter in the Unix operating system. 

I'm sure European firms would welcome the business,

Ross
