Path: msuinfo!gmi!zombie.ncsc.mil!MathWorks.Com!yeshua.marcam.com!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!olivea!news.hal.COM!darkstar.UCSC.EDU!crawford
From: crawford@scipp.UCSC.EDU (Mike Crawford)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto,comp.security.misc
Subject: Re: Legality of black-market R-C-4 code
Date: 19 Sep 1994 22:54:48 GMT
Organization: Santa Cruz Institute for Particle Physics
Lines: 63
Message-ID: <35l4ro$7r0@darkstar.UCSC.EDU>
References: <Cw7H1x.8sC@chinet.chinet.com> <gradyCw8xv2.Hn9@netcom.com> <PERRY.94Sep17205006@snark.imsi.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: scipp.ucsc.edu
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:32208 talk.politics.crypto:7327 comp.security.misc:11809

It's not at all clear that the original poster of the RC4 source was even
in the US.  If he was not, he has broken no US laws - in particular he 
would not have broken the law against exporting encryption software, and
it is very unlikely that a shrink-wrap license written under US "law" would
have any enforceability in the country where he purchased it.

There are countries where outright piracy is not illegal (at least that used
to be the case in Brazil and Pakistan.  I don't know if it is anymore).  In
such countries a person could post an entire commercial program on the news
and not be breaking the law.

If this was the case - if the person who revealed the algorithm was not in
the US - it seems to me to make the issue pretty murky.  Could California
law hold that the algorithm was obtained by improper means if the means were
not considered improper at the place they were practiced?

In any case, the Uniform Trade Secrets code states explicitly that reverse
engineering is permitted.  In my work as a Mac programmer, I spend a great
deal of time "under the hood", nosing around in the OS and other people's
software, as a legitimate part of developing my own software.  I've done
enough of this that I can read compiled code under a debugger with little
more difficulty than reading the source.  I don't consider publishing 
compiled code to keep anything a secret.

The RC4 code is simple enough that I could have gotten it myself in a day
or so of work.  Someone who also specialized in crypto would take less time
than I would.  Thus I see no reason to believe that the code was obtained
improperly, and so IMHO RSA has lost their trade secret, and anyone would be
able to use it legitimately.

RSA erred in not obtaining a patent.  If they really wanted the algorithm
to remain proprietary they should have taken advantage of the mechanism 
provide for a temporary monopoly.  THey could even have kept it a secret
if they could convince the patent office to classify the patent as a secret.
(For example, I understand that the hydrogen bomb was patented by teller and
ulam.  Must have made them rich).

There are two problem remaining for anyone wanting to make commercial use
of the algorithm.  While RSA may not have legitimate grounds to sue, they
will certainly sue anyone who tries to use it just to make things difficult.
So whoever decides to be the test case better have some deep pockets.  They'll
win, but it will cost.  Secondly, the NSA may not allow such products to be
exported.  The agreement with the NSA and the SPA was that products would
have expedited approval only if they used the library from RSA.  WHile this
code would produce identical results, the NSA could argue that they don't
know for sure it is the same encryption scheme and cause costly delays.

RC4 is pretty cheap, so I doubt anyone would go to the expense of defending
the use of the reverse-engineered code in a commercial product.

However, I feel that it is improper for our government to require that a
product of a particular favored company be used when exporting encryption 
software.  When the SPA first sent me the announcement about it, my first 
thought was "who got paid off for this?"  RSA is making ~$10M off of a 
monopoly provided for them by us export regulations.  I think the Federal
Trade Commission ought to go and butt some heads with the NSA, and allow
competing products to be sold, as well as to require the NSA to give
expedited approval to products written with the reverse engineered code.


-- 
Mike Crawford           | "Aside from that, how did you enjoy the play,
crawford@scipp.ucsc.edu | Mrs. Lincoln?"
