Path: msuinfo!gmi!zombie.ncsc.mil!MathWorks.Com!news.kei.com!world!blanket.mitre.org!linus.mitre.org!bistromath.mitre.org!ptrei
From: ptrei@bistromath.mitre.org (Peter Trei)
Newsgroups: misc.legal,sci.crypt
Subject: Disclosing Trade Secrets in Cyberspace - an interesting situation.
Followup-To: misc.legal
Date: 20 Sep 1994 16:15:45 GMT
Organization: The MITRE Corporation
Lines: 91
Message-ID: <35n1rh$dim@linus.mitre.org>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bistromath.mitre.org
Xref: msuinfo misc.legal:104331 sci.crypt:32242

     There's new situation developing in cyberspace involving trade
secrets, which misc.legal folks might like to follow and/or comment
on.

     Background:

     RSADSI, an California software firm, has for several years sold
source code and products using an encryption algorithm it developed,
called "RC4". RC4 has not been patented, but rather protected as a
trade secret, using non-disclosure agreements and licenses. It is
included in many 'shrink wrap' products, including Lotus Notes.

     RC4 has the property that it can be used with different key
lengths. Products which include it, but which use only short keys, are
approved for export. Products which permit longer keys are presumably
not.

     About a week ago, an unidentified person or persons, using an
anonymous remailer, posted source code to a mailing list for
cryptographers, claiming it to be RC4 source code. This code has been
verified to interoperate correctly with 'real' RC4 products. It was
subsequently reposted to sci.crypt, so it's all over the world by now.

     Unknowns:

	* If this is the same algorithm as the 'real' RC4.
		* Since it's publication, people have posted modifications
		  to speed it up substantially, while maintaining 	
		  compatibility. This may suggest that it's not RSADSI's
		  exact algorithm, which would presumably already be well
		  optimized.

	* If the source code was obtained by:
		* Classic cryptanalysis - deducing the algorithm from the
		  key, the plaintext, and the encrypted text.
		* Reverse engineering - dis-assembling and decompiling a
		  binary program including the algorithm (eg, Lotus Notes).
		* Unorthodox means, such as dumpster diving, burglery, or 
		  violation of a non-disclosure agreement.

	* Who obtained the source code, who posted it to the net, and in
		what jurisdiction(s) these events occured. The use of an 
		anonymous remailer may well make it impossible to determine
		this, even with after-the-fact cooperation of the remailer
		operator.


    RSADSI is upset. The following letter has been posted to the net,
apparently from them:

--------------------------------------------------
(start quoted text)
                            WARNING NOTICE

    It has come to RSA Data Security's attention that certain RSA
trade secrets, in the form of confidential and proprietary source
code, have been misappropriated and disclosed.  Please be advised that
these acts, as well as any retransmission or use of this
misappropriated source code is a violation of the Uniform Trade
Secrets Act and various other state and federal laws.  Any person or
entity that acquires, discloses or uses this information is subject to
criminal and civil penalties including an injunction, compensatory
damages, punitive damages and payment of RSA's attorneys fees.

    RSA considers this misappropriation to be most serious.  Not only
is this act a violation of law, but its publication is a gross abuse
of the Internet.  RSA has begun an investigation and will proceed with
legal action against anyone found to have violated its intellectual
property rights.

(end quoted text)
--------------------------------------------------

     Theoretically, if everything this letter says is true, every
Internet node which carries or transmitted sci.crypt is subject to
lawsuit. 

     Most sci.crypt participants are regarding this as legal hot air,
and believe that (in most places) if a trade secret is revealed, it
falls into the public domain.

     A curious side-effect is that the State Department might now ban
the export of products containing RC4, since it is no longer secret,
and modifications to increase the key length are simplified.

     Comments? I've set followups to misc.legal.

					Peter Trei
					ptrei@mitre.org

Disclaimer: I do not speak for my employer.
