Path: msuinfo!uchinews!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!library.ucla.edu!news.mic.ucla.edu!unixg.ubc.ca!unruh
From: unruh@physics.ubc.ca (William Unruh)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: RSADSI Warning
Date: 21 Sep 1994 04:02:35 GMT
Organization: The University of British Columbia
Lines: 33
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <35ob8r$9vi@nntp.ucs.ubc.ca>
References: <strnlghtCw8x5I.DIq@netcom.com> <35fuao$6h6@news1.shell> <strnlghtCwD36C.LtD@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: physics.ubc.ca

strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:

>By your own argument, improper means includes breach of a duty to maintain
>secrecy (see above). Thus theft is not the only improper means which would
> be "catching" to a third party; so would violation of a license agreement.
>Since all legal copies of RC4 carry a license agreement prohibiting
>publication or reverse engineering, the only possible way to get a copy and
>then reverse engineer are theft (as you say) or license violation. Thus any
>third party use is misappropriation under this law.

I believe that only if the license explicitely refered to the code as
secret and explicitely enjoining the licencee to refrain from allowing
anyone else to know the secret. Simply saying no reveres engineering I
doubt would be sufficient.There could be many reasons for no reverse
engineering other than protection of trade secrets. Similarly the no
publication clause could simply be a standard copyright protection with
no secret implied ( after all almost every book I buy enjoins me not to
copy it and there are no trade secrets in there. 
If the license explicitely states that the contents of the code are
trade secrets, and has the licencee agree not to disclose those secrets
even if they are discovered by any means then maybe they would have a
case ( but I doubt that a "shrinkwrap" licence would suffice as evidence
that the licensor regarded the contents as secret.) 

Reminds me of a friend who lost a case based on work not being done by
the time explicitely agreed to in the contract because the contract did
not contain the magic phrase " time is of the essense". I suspect trade
secrets need even stronger evidence that the secret holder really
regards the secret seriously and has gone to extensive efforts to
protect that secret. 
--
Bill Unruh
unruh@physics.ubc.ca
