Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!gmi!zombie.ncsc.mil!MathWorks.Com!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!nic-nac.CSU.net!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!csusac!csus.edu!netcom.com!smorgan
From: smorgan@netcom.com (Stephen P. Morgan)
Subject: Request for Info on Vietnam Era US Military Crypto Machines
Message-ID: <smorganCwGGr2.407@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 261-4700 guest)
Date: Wed, 21 Sep 1994 01:13:49 GMT
Lines: 43

I am in the process of researching technical details for a work of
historical fiction that I am writing.  The work in question in-
cludes elements of military (primarily but not exclusively U.S. Naval)
cryptography.  It would be greatly helpful to me if I could gather
sufficient technical information to make the work as historically
accurate as possible.

I am primarily interested in two crypto machines, the KW-7 and the
KWR-37.  I've chosen these machines primarily because I know that
they were used heavily and compromised badly during the Vietnam War
era, e.g. scores were captured by the NVA as American and South Viet-
namese positions were overrun, and John Walker provided (I believe)
the electrical wiring of the KWR-37 rotors to Soviet agents.

The type of information I'm looking for is fairly basic, e.g. a
physical description of the machines, how an operator would
physically work the machines, the number of rotors each contained,
and the number of positions on the rotors, whether rotors were
interchangeable (as in the later Naval Enigmas), and the length
of a key for each machine.  Also, information about self-destruct
capabilities would be helpful. Further information that could be
of use would of course be welcome, within the following guide-
lines.

I am only interested in information that is at present NOT classified
by any agency of the US government.  I have absolutely no interest in
classified material, nor do I have any interest in violating any law
of any government.  If for some reason just the asking of these
questions is illegal, please note that I have done so entirely
without malicious intent.  This is not an anonymous posting, and
is easily traceable to me.  (U.S. mailing address provided upon
request.)

One final question:  Is it possible to buy a working Naval Enigma?
How might one do so?  And what might one expect to pay for one?
(This question is unrelated to the book---I've spent a lot of
time reading about Enigma, and I'd like to own an Enigma just
for its historical interest---I also collect particularly inter-
esting pieces of Soviet military equipment, and might be inter-
ested in Soviet crypto gear.)
-- 
Steve Morgan				internet: smorgan@netcom.com
"Viet Nam is like the Alamo." --- Lyndon Johnson, December 3rd, 1965
