Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,comp.security.misc,alt.privacy
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!newsserver.jvnc.net!jvnc.net!seltd!lerman
From: lerman@seltd.jvnc.net (Kenneth Lerman)
Subject: Re: RC4 Algorithm revealed.
Message-ID: <1994Sep21.130459.5971@tigger.jvnc.net>
Followup-To: sci.crypt,alt.security,comp.security.misc,alt.privacy
Sender: news@tigger.jvnc.net (Zee News Genie)
Nntp-Posting-Host: seltd.newnet.com
Organization: Systems Essentials Limited
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
References: <sternCvKL4B.Hyy@netcom.com> <gradyCwBxMq.GtD@netcom.com> <strnlghtCwCL68.Bzz@netcom.com> <35j7l2$ffo@nntp.ucs.ubc.ca> <strnlghtCwGutA.Msr@netcom.com>
Date: Wed, 21 Sep 1994 13:04:59 GMT
Lines: 66
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:32278 alt.security:18899 comp.security.misc:11855 alt.privacy:19212

David Sternlight (strnlght@netcom.com) wrote:
...

<In the interests of brevity, lines have been deleted.

: Bidzos says that all copies are covered by such a license. Unless you are
: prepared to call him a liar and back it up, you're simply wrong about the
: first part of the above.

What does the phrase "covered by such a license" mean in the above
context?

The "license" that came with a copy of Lotus Notes I've seen says:
   "You may make one(1) archival copy of the Software."

It does NOT say:
  "This software contains trade secrets, you must guard it from disclosure."
  "You must affix a copy of this license to the archival copy of the
   Software."

So, even if the license which is hidden inside the package is binding,
it does NOT require that I treat the copy as if it contained a trade
secret.

It may be binding on me, but is not binding on others who may have
access to my machine.

So I conclude that if Bidzos says that all copies are covered by such
a license, he:

1 -- means something very different than my understanding of those
words,  OR

2 -- he is mistaken, OR

3 -- he is a liar.

Not knowing anything about the man, I am loathe to call him a liar.
On the otherhand, if he is a lawyer, then "res ipso loquitor", as they
say in the trade.  (pardon my spelling)

...


: You haven't been following this discussion. Jim says that all copies are
: protected by a "no reverse engineering, no disclosure" license. Jim says that
: the only way the code could have gotten out is by theft or license
: violation. He is in a position to know; you are not and can only make up
: stories. They cannot carry any weight with serious people, being unsupported
: by any evidence. 

The copy of the "license" of Lotus Notes in my possession says that I
"may not loan, rent, lease or license the Software or any copy."  It
does NOT say that I may not leave it lying round on my coffee table.
The word disclosure does not appear to be anywhere in the license.

If you want me to treat something like a secret, you should at least
tell me that it IS a secret.

Ken

--
Kenneth Lerman                              lerman@seltd.newnet.com
Systems Essentials Limited                            (203)426-4430
55 Main Street
Newtown, CT 06470
