Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!dsinc!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!scipio.cyberstore.ca!vanbc.wimsey.com!unixg.ubc.ca!unruh
From: unruh@physics.ubc.ca (William Unruh)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto,comp.security.misc
Subject: Re: Legality of black-market R-C-4 code
Date: 22 Sep 1994 21:39:56 GMT
Organization: The University of British Columbia
Lines: 37
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <35stjc$m7a@nntp.ucs.ubc.ca>
References: <Cw7H1x.8sC@chinet.chinet.com> <1994Sep20.163412.1160@csis.pcscav.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: physics.ubc.ca
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:32380 talk.politics.crypto:7473 comp.security.misc:11910

ksaj@csis.pcscav.com (Karsten Johansson) writes:

>Most commercial software comes in a sealed envelope with something similar
>written on it (this is shortened, and names have been removed, but comes from 
>a legit software package grabbed off my shelf)

...
>So, read them agreements.

One of the questions is whether or not such a statement is an agreement.
As the definition of the term implies an agreement needs two parties to come to that
agreement, and there is no evidence that that is true. For example
suppose I were to post the following on the net:

"This usenet posting constitutes an agreement between you the reader,
and me Bill Unruh that on the 10th day of October you will refrain from
eating any food or drinking any drink.  Reading this agreement, or in any way responding
to it constitutes your acceptance of the terms of this agreement. If you
do not agree to be bound by this agreement, you must erase this message
from any and all computers owned or used by you, and you must take all
steps possible to ensure that no further message from me ever enters
your computer system in any way whatsoever, and you must notify your
bank, your accountant,the IRS, and your religious leader that you do not agree to bound by
this agreement. Failure to abide by the terms of this agreement will
constitute evidence of bad faith on your part and will make you liable
for punative and compensatory damages."

Now do you really think that by reading the above you have actually
entered into an agreement with me? I certainly do not think so, nor do I
think any court of law would think so.  So why do you feel that the
license enclosed in software packages is any more valid than the above?
(You may even have paid for your usenet link or may have received the
software as a gift, so money is not the issue.)

--
Bill Unruh
unruh@physics.ubc.ca
