Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!news.amherst.edu!news.mtholyoke.edu!world!MathWorks.Com!yeshua.marcam.com!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!csusac!csus.edu!netcom.com!area51
From: area51@netcom.com (Man In Black)
Subject: the remailer at jpunix.com
Message-ID: <area51CwLKqK.MBv@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 261-4700 guest)
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
Date: Fri, 23 Sep 1994 19:27:56 GMT
Lines: 62

[ Article crossposted from alt.anonymous,alt.privacy.anon-server,alt.security,alt.security.pgp ]
[ Author was perry@jpunix.com ]
[ Posted on 19 Sep 1994 18:19:30 -0500 ]

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

Hello Everyone,

	There have been a lot of rumors and innuendo flying around about
exactly what happened last week in regards to the remailer at jpunix.com. 
I've decided to tell everyone about the chain of events from my viewpoint. 

	I was at a seminar last Thursday afternoon so I am unable to tell
the story firsthand. I'm only able to relay what happened as told to me by
the CEO of the company I work for. 

	An individual called my company called last week looking for me. 
He claimed to be a lawyer. Since I wasn't there, he asked to speak to the
CEO. He then proceeded to tell the CEO that I had stolen the source code
to an encryption algorithm and had made it public. He then went on to say
that he was going to call the DA's office, have federal marshals arrest
me, and confiscate my company's computer equipment. 

	This person said that the source code was published to the net by
nobody@jpunix.com. Well, of course that is the anonymous remailer at
jpunix.com. I actually had absolutely nothing to do with the publication
of this material. The sender used the remailer to post it. 

	Since then, I have heard nothing more on the subject. No one has
tried to contact me or my company on the matter. 

	I was almost fired from my job over something that I did not do. 
Fortunately my CEO is open-minded enough to realize that I was not to
blame. 

	Since this individual has almost cost me my livelihood over
something where the facts were obviously not checked before the
finger-pointing started, why haven't myself or the CEO been contacted and
apologized to for this mistake? Is it standard in this type of situation
for the accusing party to damage and defame someone's reputation, cause
them to almost lose their job and then just walk away without so much as a
"oops, I made a mistake"? What do you think? 

John A. Perry - perry@jpunix.com
 
 PGP 2.61 key for perry@jpunix.com is on the keyservers.
 PGP-encrypted e-mail welcome!




-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.1

iQCVAwUBLn4celOTpEThrthvAQFAUwQAn+gHUoG37+OGvi3zC1SdoiJ74zt5rd63
LDwp3uMmzZj8djigyz0eKPkgemnQ3+H2g8+BLYCjp/VGCmzxIVOREocZ8phQ9myb
tEAALRy6+ptvLRkhiGB6eOhsZhZKFFweALNk6b6p3WPagSBydld287mt4lc5m0mJ
Bfg1rnCZFAs=
=kV4v
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
-- 
                                             area51@netcom.com
