Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!news.kei.com!eff!neoucom.edu!news.ysu.edu!yfn.ysu.edu!ae411
From: ae411@yfn.ysu.edu (Richard Baker)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Book Review
Date: 24 Sep 1994 05:59:25 GMT
Organization: St. Elizabeth Hospital, Youngstown, OH
Lines: 45
Message-ID: <360f7t$gt6@news.ysu.edu>
Reply-To: ae411@yfn.ysu.edu (Richard Baker)
NNTP-Posting-Host: yfn.ysu.edu


     I posted this on rec.radio.shortwave as a review I wrote for 
the shortwave listners club Speedx. Thought maybe some of you here
may be interested also:
 
A Review:
"Hobbyist's Guide to COMINT Collection and Analysis" by Tom Roach
 
     An interesting review this month and a change of pace from your normal
"utility" book. Tom Roach, a longtime utility digital and SSB mode/broadcast
hobbyist, has authored and published this title.
     "COMINT" is a military acronym for "Communications Intelligence", or the
gleaning of information from communications. You have seen examples of this month
after month in this very column! When you hear a certain aircraft say "switch to
frequency Z32" and you tune around and find the same aircraft calling his station
of "Z32", you have engaged in COMINT. You now have
determined by an intercepted communication that frequency "XXX" is designated
"Z32", for a simple example. Sometimes you may see a oddly formatted message sent
from one particular station and wonder what it is and how you can figure it out.
     That's some of what Tom Roach explains in this book.
     The book is some 100 pages spiral bound; a format I admire in a radio hobby
book as it makes it easy to sit down on a page you want to keep turned to, no page
weights required!
     Stressing HF comms and using Russian and Cuban RTTY/CW traffic as an example,
Tom gives the reader his "lessons" which can be applied to any aspect of the
monitoring hobby, including VHF/UHF/800Mhz scanner traffic. Myself, I have been
involved in the "ute's" and scanners for a long time and have "gleaned" my share
of information. But I was still fairly amazed at some of methods that could be
employed to solve "radio mysteries".
     Chapters cover needed equipment; where, when and how to listen; and the
proper analysis of data. It is this last area, analysis, that never has
received any real attention in any publication before. All the analysis lessons
here uses REAL intercepted traffic.
     I think those who are involved in military monitoring of any kind, and
digital modes especially, will find this book of interest. The "Hobbyist's Guide
to COMINT Collection and Analysis" by Tom Roach is available direct from the author
at 1330 Copper Peak Lane, San Jose, Ca, 95120-4271, with a suggested list price of
US$26.00 U.S. and Canada, US$26.00 for UK, Finland, Germany, and US$27.00 for
Australian readers. The book should be available through Universal Radio and
Grove's shortly. All direct orders include air mail shipping, but no credit cards
accepted.
-- 
Rick Baker (ae411@yfn.ysu.edu)
	   (xx159@yfn.ysu.edu) yfn SWL Sig Sysop
Recorded live and direct from downtown Austintown, Ohio
