Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!news.sprintlink.net!jupiter.planet.net!earth.planet.net!billsohl
From: billsohl@earth.planet.net (Bill Sohl  Budd Lake)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,misc.legal.computing
Subject: Re: RSADSI Warning
Followup-To: sci.crypt,misc.legal.computing
Date: 26 Sep 1994 02:29:26 GMT
Organization: Planet Access Networks - Stanhope, NJ
Lines: 58
Message-ID: <365bm6$b3d@jupiter.planet.net>
References: <9409161407.AA03753@ah.com> <strnlghtCwCJs5.Av6@netcom.com> <a_rubin.779996836@dsg4.dse.beckman.com> <35s7nq$j46@ivory.lm.com> <strnlghtCwnJE8.DEz@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: earth.planet.net
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:32499 misc.legal.computing:9862

David Sternlight (strnlght@netcom.com) wrote:
: In article <35s7nq$j46@ivory.lm.com>,
: >Shrink-wrap licenses are unenforceable.
: >
: The phrase "shrink-wrap licenses" is being used ambiguously. That's why I
: use specific sets of facts.
: Let's assume your comment applies if the above is the only set of facts. Now
: let's add a notice on the outside of the box as is common practice. For
: example, Symantec's Norton Utilities says "Use of this product is subject to
: acceptance of the Symantic License Agreement included in this package".

: As I understand the legal thinking, from my e-mail correspondence with an
: attorney (I don't say who since I don't have his permission to publish his
: letter), shrink-wrap agreements, as defined to be contained entirely in the
: package, with no notice outside the package or separate agreement are
: unenforceable because they attempt to convert what has the character of an
: outright sale into a different kind of transaction. Few modern software
: commercial transactions are of this character. Most have a notice on the
: outside of the package that the product is licensed, and a license as
: described in my first paragraph above, inside.

: I understand in the same conversation with the attorney that if
: there is a notice on the outside of the package, the matter is not settled
: law, and thus the "not a glimmer" etc. comment becomes inaccurate.

I'll agree with the "unsettled aspect" as to a general lack of 
caselaw.

: How this might apply to mail order sales where the buyer can't read the
: package in advance,I don't know. I assume the mail order vendor has some
: kind of general notice in his catalog or advertisement to put the buyer on
: notice that some products are licensed, not sold.
: David

But I think there's still another element that has yet to be discussed
and that is: What has the software industry actually done/practiced
with regard to any enforcement of their claimed "licensing" of the
software versus an actual purchase of a single copy of the software.
As I see it, and based on a general lack of any reports to the contrary,
the software developers/companies simply make their assertion (i.e.
shrinkwrap) and never pursue protecting their claimed rights, etc.
That (IMHO) states a great case against licensing.  Why would any
court finally (after 15 plus years of software vending) find a company's
claims valid when the company has, for all intenets and purposes, never
raised a finger to protect those claimed rights.  One doesn't find 
agents scouring the flea markets for people selling used software (against
many claimed shrinkwrap licenses), entire PC setups are sold with
many software packages passed on to the new owner, etc.

Frankly, from a practical standpoint, the shrinkwrap license is all but
dead, and the longer it goes untested, the less likly a favorable
outcome (for the vendors) is if it ever does get tested.

Just my .02 :-)

--
Bill Sohl  K2UNK      (billsohl@planet.net)
Budd Lake, New Jersey
