Path: msuinfo!agate!ames!purdue!mozo.cc.purdue.edu!en.ecn.purdue.edu!irwin
From: irwin@en.ecn.purdue.edu (William Lee Irwin)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Multi-Subject-Post
Date: 26 Sep 1994 12:05:53 GMT
Organization: The Arjen Lenstra Fan Club
Lines: 44
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <366df1$2br@mozo.cc.purdue.edu>
References: <THIELOPH.94Sep26113958@morgoth.cs.uni-sb.de>
NNTP-Posting-Host: en.ecn.purdue.edu
Summary: Sternlight flame, *math!*

	I had a few spurious ideas I thought might be worthwhile to throw
out into sci.crypt.

	1) Analytic attack on RSA!
	phi(n) should have an asymptotic expansion bigger than what I see in
number theory textbooks. In fact, if I manage to get through the necessary
analysis (heresy!) I might be able to generate a full one, which may well
already be available. Slap it into a sequence accelerator, and see what happens.
(Probably frightening whether effective or not.)

	2) Whatever happened to that guy with the generators for S(2^n)?
	It seems to me that this could quickly generate some really hairy stuff
to crack, and I even sent some email to the guy who posted it about how I had a
marginally similar idea rather undeveloped and non-general, and about my
interest in coding it. GF(2^n) seems like a much more entertaining place to
work than Z(n) if you ask me.

	3) What the hell does "Burma Shave" mean?
	I emailed sternlight about it, and got no response. It probably got
tossed in with the rest of the email flames. Hell, there should be an
alt.flame.david-sternlight for all that. I love killfiles - don't you?

	4) Is there a "Number Theoretical Recipes in C"?
	I've never heard of such a thing, though I suppose there should be one.
Frankly, I'd love to monitor its develoment if somebody's working on one. This
may be the wrong place to ask this question though not a bad one to get the
answer.

	5) Code, please?
	Are there any programmers left on this newsgroup? Or is everyone so
sick of their jobs that they don't want to code on the side? (Probably unfair
coming from someone who's never had a job.) The code+theory : dreck ratio seems
lower than it should be here, as I'm sure everyone else complains. Contribution
to the solution: next post I'll see if I can get a multi-precision Z(n) type
thing going and see if anyone has anything interesting to say about it. I've
got some of the basics sitting around one of my accounts already, but it's
only machine precision. Remind me gently if I fail to post it.

	I think this about covers it.
--
Break, break, O my brothers, these old tablets of the pious. Break the maxims 
of those who would slander the world.			->Friedrich Nietzsche
Power is in tearing human minds to pieces and putting them together again in
new shapes of your own choosing.			->Eric Blair
