Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!gmi!zombie.ncsc.mil!MathWorks.Com!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!lll-winken.llnl.gov!trib.apple.com!amd!netcomsv!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: RFD:Expanding sci.crypt charter to legal issues
Message-ID: <strnlghtCwqy64.M08@netcom.com>
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
Date: Mon, 26 Sep 1994 17:06:04 GMT
Lines: 52


This is a formal Request for Discussion of expanding the sci.crypt charter
to legal (not political) issues.

Sci.crypt's "charter" has, in the past been limited to the science of
cryptography. However, it has attracted much traffic on other topics, such
as politics, law, civil liberties, etc. in the past.

In an attempt to provide a more suitable venue for politics,
talk.politics.crypto was created. This helped, but not enough.

In a further attempt to provide a place where the science of crypto could be
discussed, a moderated sci.crypt.research was created. The moderator is
strictly enforcing the charter of that group.

Those interested in legal matters relating to crypto still have no place
formally set up for that purpose. The various legal groups are general, and
talk about the specialized law related to crypto, as well as general
copyright and trademark law as related to crypto, is often buried in the
general matter.

By the number of different people posting here on legal crypto matters, it
is clear that many others seem to think this is the most useful place for
such posts. By the active nature of responses from many, it is clear that
there is an audience here for participation in such discussion. Such an
audience has, at present, no place to go which is both crypto-focussed and
free of the yelling, screaming, and incivility typical of political crypto
discussions. Unlike political crypto discussions, which are often a matter
of held opinions, legal crypto discussions are usually a matter of what the
facts (of a case, of the law) are.

I therefore propose we discuss formally expanding the charter of this group
(which, as scientific topics move more and more to sci.crypt.research will
have the room) to include legal (but not political) matters relevant to
crypto. Should there be enough positive response, after (say) a three-week
discussion period, I propose to bring the matter to a vote.

If charter expansion requires a more formal procedure than the above, as
creating a new "big six" newsgroup does under the rules (for example posts
to a newsgroup newsgroup, or the involvement of neutral "vote counters"), I
would hope experts in THAT topic would offer their advice as well.

If others have specific language they would propose for expanding the
charter in the way I suggest, so that legal would be covered but politics
not, I would encourage such drafting suggestions be offered in this
discussion as well.

David Sternlight
-- 
People who post newsgroup flames
Must have flammable gas for brains.
Burma Shave.
