Path: msuinfo!gmi!zombie.ncsc.mil!MathWorks.Com!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!library.ucla.edu!news.mic.ucla.edu!news.bc.net!vanbc.wimsey.com!unixg.ubc.ca!unruh
From: unruh@physics.ubc.ca (William Unruh)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,comp.security.misc,alt.privacy
Subject: Re: RC4 Algorithm revealed.
Date: 27 Sep 1994 04:47:08 GMT
Organization: The University of British Columbia
Lines: 48
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <36884c$n4a@nntp.ucs.ubc.ca>
References: <sternCvKL4B.Hyy@netcom.com> <35j7l2$ffo@nntp.ucs.ubc.ca> <strnlghtCwGutA.Msr@netcom.com> <35pqng$dqq@nntp.ucs.ubc.ca> <strnlghtCwr7A9.5Hv@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: physics.ubc.ca
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:32565 alt.security:19038 comp.security.misc:12030 alt.privacy:19602

strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:


>You did not say "in and of itself". And that is what the law says--that
>reverse engineering ONLY is not a violation. But reverse engineering in
>assocation with other violations mentioned in the same breath in the law
>WOULD BE.
...
>Thus it is false to state or imply that reverse engineering itself is prima
>facie evidence that the violation is protected by law.
But I never said or implied that reverse engineering is prima facia evidence that
the violation is protected by law. You keep wanting to make me say more
than I actually said. reverse engineering is simply not improper means.
In the list of things the law regards as improper means, reverse
engineering is nowhere to be found in that list. Almost any other action
may be in taht list, but reverse engineering is distinguished in being
virtually the only action not to be found there. 
If improper means WERE used then a violation occured. Those improper
means do not include reverse engineering period. ( they also do not
include many other things such as buying the program, etc, but in fact
reverse engineering is more protected than anything else since it is
explicitely excluded from  the list of improper means.) 

Am I now clear? 
Furhtermore, when in discussions someone says "it was obtained by
reverse engineering" in distinction from "by improper means" they
usually do not menat " it was obtained by reverse engineering and by
improper menas" such as a violation of an explicit non-disclosure
agreement. It measns it was obtained by reverse engineering rather than
by  one of the catalog of improper means. It is true that it could have
been obtained by reverse engineering and still have also been revealed
by improper means (such as the explicit violation of a non-disclosure
agreement, invasion of the offices of RSA at midnight and theft from the
files etc) but it is hard to see why reverse engineering would then have
been needed. One usually signs non-disclosure agreements only if
something has been disclosed to one ( and I agree that there are cases
in which you would sign a non-diclosure for other reasons than to see
RC4 etc). 

Anyway I apologise for having had to write this long and totally
obvious post, but for someone to be appalled at my not being able to
follow a logical argument  and other ad hominem attacks
and then to blithly proceed to impute
statements to me that I never made in order to attack me, 
tends to bring out the cussedness in me.
--
Bill Unruh
unruh@physics.ubc.ca
