Path: msuinfo!gmi!zombie.ncsc.mil!MathWorks.Com!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!torn!nntp.cs.ubc.ca!cs.ubc.ca!cs.ubc.ca!not-for-mail
From: mjmccut@cs.ubc.ca (Mark McCutcheon)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: RFD:Expanding sci.crypt charter to legal issues
Followup-To: sci.crypt
Date: 27 Sep 1994 11:42:52 -0700
Organization: Computer Science, University of B.C., Vancouver, B.C., Canada
Lines: 37
Message-ID: <369p3c$93h@cascade.cs.ubc.ca>
NNTP-Posting-Host: cascade.cs.ubc.ca
Summary: one position against

This is in response to David Sternlight's Request for Discussion on the
expansion of the sci.crypt charter to include legal issues (Message-ID:
<strnlghtCwqy64.M08@netcom.com>, Date: Mon, 26 Sep 1994 17:06:04 GMT).

I'd like to express my disagreement with this idea.  If there is indeed a
general interest in discussion of legal issues surrounding cryptography,
then my suggestion is to spawn a subgroup of sci.crypt.  I'm not certain
what the appropriate heirarchical designation would be (sci.crypt.legal?).

I appreciate that the moderated sci.crypt.research has been established for
technical discussion in the basic science of cryptography.  However, I'm a
communications engineer, and follow this newsgroup (sci.crypt) as much or
more for information about the practice of cryptography.  I know from
correspondance that there are others like myself reading and occasionally
contributing to this group.

However, the volume of messages makes it increasingly difficult to justify
doing this as a part of my working day.  I'm loath to use a killfile to
remove all messages from particular individuals, but as has been frequently
noted, the signal-to-noise ratio is already quite low.

Clearly, legal issues are a part of the practice of cryptography.  However,
the only poster on these issues who seems to have professional credentials
and the factual knowledge to do more than speculate is Peter Berger
<peterb@telerama.lm.com>, and his most frequent advice is to "get your own
lawyer".  In addition, most of what passes for legal discussion concerns
almost entirely US law, which impacts upon those of us outside the US but
in most instances is not directly relevant.

In summary, I hope that the traffic in sci.crypt will not be further
expanded by making legal and politico-legal issues a part of the charter as
well as a defacto part of the message flow.

Regards,

---
Mark McCutcheon | UBC High-Speed Network Group | <mjmccut@cs.ubc.ca>
