Path: msuinfo!gmi!zombie.ncsc.mil!MathWorks.Com!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!library.ucla.edu!news.mic.ucla.edu!news.bc.net!vanbc.wimsey.com!unixg.ubc.ca!unruh
From: unruh@physics.ubc.ca (William Unruh)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,comp.security.misc,alt.privacy
Subject: Re: RC4 Algorithm revealed.
Date: 27 Sep 1994 18:53:15 GMT
Organization: The University of British Columbia
Lines: 59
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <369pmr$rls@nntp.ucs.ubc.ca>
References: <sternCvKL4B.Hyy@netcom.com> <gradyCwBxMq.GtD@netcom.com> <strnlghtCwCL68.Bzz@netcom.com> <35qlsg$4nb@zeus.intnet.net> <strnlghtCwsrAC.B1v@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: physics.ubc.ca
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:32602 alt.security:19060 comp.security.misc:12059 alt.privacy:19636

strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:

>1. If you steal the secret you're culpable;
>2. If you betray a duty to keep the secret, you're culpable;
>3. If you publish the secret when you could be assumed to know that someone
>else did 1 or 2 (above) you're culpable.
>4. Some other stuff you can do to make you culpable.
>5. If you reverse engineer WITHOUT 1-4, the act of reverse engineering alone
>doesn't make you culpable.

>That is a far cry from "the California Penal Code says it's ok". In the
>present case, there's very good reason to believe that some of 1-4 apply,
>and in addition, nobody on the other side has proven that some of 1-4 didn't
>happen. Thus we cannot conclude anything about the reverse engineering or
>subsequent publication except that it will take a court to rule on this one.
>In particular, we cannot CONCLUDE that the reverse engineer was "ok", though
>many here keep ASSERTING it by posting an erroneous description, or an
>out-of-context piece of the penal code.

Let us keep the discussion in context. You stated that because you had
posted RSA's claims that the code was obtained by unlawful means, that
we should all therefor know that it was and therefor that anyone who
reads this newsgroup therefor falls under your point 3. What many of us
have been trying to point out to you is that we know nothing of the
sort. You cannot conclude from the possibility that the code was
obtained wrongly that it was obtained wrongly. What many have been
trying to point out to you is that it is also possible that it was
obtained by perfectly valid means amongst which reverse engineering (
yes, by assumption without any of  the possible wrongful means also 
having been used) falls.

Now, David, do you grant that it is possible that the code was obtained
by means that do not fall under the catagory of unlawful means? The key
word in that sentence is POSSIBLE. (and yes, I will put in that the
possibility must be a reasonable possibility- ie that a majority of
reasonable people would agree that the means were a possible means.)

If so, then you do not know that the the code was obtained by unlawful
means. That is the question the courts will ask. Are there means by
which the code could, given the knowledge of the person, have been
obtained which do not violate the code. The answer of most of us is yes,
amongst which reverse engineering of store bought code containing RC4
falls. If that is possible, then we do NOT fall under your section 3.
The onus is on RSA (for civil) and on the prosecution (criminal) to show
with high probability that we knew (not guessed, not hypothesised, not
speculated, but knew) that the means used were unlawful. We do not know
that, and your postings have neither convinced us that unlawful means
were used. and even if they did it would be irrlevant because we are not
responsible for releasing the code. It is done finished. There is no
trade secrect to reveal anymore. The trade secrect is dead.
RSA can try to find the person responsible and try to convince the
courts that that person revealed the secrect unlawfully, but neither RSA
nor the criminal code have any hold on us anymore.

I hope that this clarifies the argument contra your position that people
have been advancing here time and again.
--
Bill Unruh
unruh@physics.ubc.ca
