Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,comp.security.misc,alt.privacy
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!news.kei.com!ub!csn!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: RC4 Algorithm revealed.
Message-ID: <strnlghtCwturJ.HA5@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <sternCvKL4B.Hyy@netcom.com> <CwqMw7.767@scone.london.sco.com> <strnlghtCwr7oH.6KI@netcom.com> <369ohp$isg@ivory.lm.com>
Date: Wed, 28 Sep 1994 06:45:17 GMT
Lines: 137
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:32644 alt.security:19083 comp.security.misc:12092 alt.privacy:19669

In article <369ohp$isg@ivory.lm.com>,
Peter Berger <peterb@telerama.lm.com> wrote:
>Nope.  You can't create privity of contract where there is none, even by
>legislative fiat.  

You may say so, but the legislature passed a law which says what I said it
says. It is modeled after the UTSA, which was written by legal experts.
Frankly, I'll take them over you any day of the week, particularly since
you've made a number of comments here which seem to me to be most
unprofessional, and that has repeatedly raised serious doubts in my mind as
to your bona fides.

Put _this_ in your pipe and smoke it:

3426.1.  As used in this title, unless the context requires
otherwise:
   (a) "Improper means" includes theft, bribery,
misrepresentation, breach or inducement of a breach of a duty to
maintain secrecy, or espionage through electronic or other
means.  Reverse engineering or independent derivation alone
shall not be considered improper means.
   (b) "Misappropriation" means:
   (1) Acquisition of a trade secret of another by a person who
knows or has reason to know that the trade secret was acquired
by improper means; or
   (2) Disclosure or use of a trade secret of another without
express or implied consent by a person who:
   (A) Used improper means to acquire knowledge of the trade
secret; or
   (B) At the time of disclosure or use, knew or had reason to
know that his or her knowledge of the trade secret was:
   (i) Derived from or through a person who had utilized
improper means to acquire it;
   (ii) Acquired under circumstances giving rise to a duty to
maintain its secrecy or limit its use; or
   (iii) Derived from or through a person who owed a duty to the
person seeking relief to maintain its secrecy or limit its use;
or
   (C) Before a material change of his or her position, knew or
had reason to know that it was a trade secret and that knowledge
of it had been acquired by accident or mistake.
   (c) "Person" means a natural person, corporation, business
trust, estate, trust, partnership, association, joint venture,
government, governmental subdivision or agency, or any other
legal or commercial entity.
   (d) "Trade secret" means information, including a formula,
pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique, or
process, that:
   (1) Derives independent economic value, actual or potential,
from not being generally known to the public or to other persons
who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and
   (2) Is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the
circumstances to maintain its secrecy.

499c.  (a) As used in this section:
   (1) "Access" means to approach, a way or means of
approaching, nearing, admittance to, including to instruct,
communicate with, store information in, or retrieve information
from a computer system or computer network.
   (2) "Article" means any object, material, device or substance
or copy thereof, including any writing, record, recording,
drawing, sample, specimen, prototype, model, photograph,
micro-organism, blueprint, map, or tangible representation of
computer program or information, including both human and
computer readable information and information while in transit.
    (3) "Benefit" means gain or advantage, or anything regarded
by the beneficiary as gain or advantage, including benefit to
any other person or entity in whose welfare he is interested.
   (4) "Computer system" means a machine or collection of
machines, one or more of which contain computer programs and
information, that performs functions, including, but not limited
to, logic, arithmetic, information storage and retrieval,
communications, and control.
   (5) "Computer network" means an interconnection of two or
more computer systems.
   (6) "Computer program" means an ordered set of instructions
or statements, and related information that, when automatically
executed in actual or modified form in a computer system, causes
it to perform specified functions.
   (7) "Copy" means any facsimile, replica, photograph or other
reproduction of an article, and any note, drawing or sketch made
of or from an article.
   (8) "Representing" means describing, depicting, containing,
constituting, reflecting or recording.
   (9) "Trade secret" means the whole or any portion or phase of
any scientific or technical information, design, process,
procedure, formula, computer program or information stored in a
computer, information in transit, or improvement which is secret
and is not generally available to the public, and which gives
one who uses it an advantage over competitors who do not know of
or use the trade secret; and a trade secret shall be presumed
to be secret when the owner thereof takes measures to prevent it
from becoming available to persons other than those selected by
the owner to have access thereto for limited purposes.
   (b) Every person is guilty of theft who, with intent to
deprive or withhold from the owner thereof the control of a
trade secret, or with an intent to appropriate a trade secret to
his or her own use or to the use of another, does any of the
following:
   (1) Steals, takes, carries away, or uses without
authorization a trade secret.
   (2) Fraudulently appropriates any article representing a
trade secret entrusted to him.
   (3) Having unlawfully obtained access to the article, without
authority makes or causes to be made a copy of any article
representing a trade secret.
   (4) Having obtained access to the article through a
relationship of trust and confidence, without authority and in
breach of the obligations created by such relationship makes or
causes to be made, directly from and in the presence of the
article, a copy of any article representing a trade secret.
   (c) Every person who promises or offers or gives, or
conspires to promise or offer to give, to any present or former
agent, employee or servant of another a benefit as an
inducement, bribe or reward for conveying, delivering or
otherwise making available an article representing a trade
secret owned by his or her present or former principal, employer
or master, to any person not authorized by such owner to
receive or acquire the same and every person who being a present
or former agent, employee, or servant, solicits, accepts,
receives or takes a benefit as an inducement, bribe or reward
for conveying, delivering or otherwise making available an
article representing a trade secret owned by his or her present
or former principal, employer or master, to any person not
authorized by such owner to receive or acquire the same is
punishable by imprisonment in the state prison, or in a county
jail not exceeding one year, or by fine not exceeding five
thousand dollars ($5,000), or by both such fine and such
imprisonment.
   (d) In a prosecution for a violation of this section it shall
be no defense that the person so charged, returned or intended
to return the article.

-- 
People who post newsgroup flames
Must have flammable gas for brains.
Burma Shave.
