Path: msuinfo!gmi!zombie.ncsc.mil!MathWorks.Com!solaris.cc.vt.edu!swiss.ans.net!howland.reston.ans.net!swrinde!news.dell.com!tadpole.com!ribit.tadpole.com!dab
From: dab@ribit.tadpole.com (Doug Barnes)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,misc.legal.computing
Subject: Re: Legality of black-market R-C-4 code<
Date: 28 Sep 1994 18:57:23 GMT
Organization: Tadpole Technology, Inc. Austin, TX
Lines: 43
Message-ID: <36ceaj$4d9@tadpole.tadpole.com>
References: <35l183$1rg@nntp.ucs.ubc.ca> <1994Sep27.141826@sdg.dra.com> <Cwt18B.6C8@cygnus.com> <a_rubin.780776505@dsg4.dse.beckman.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: ribit.tadpole.com
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:32672 misc.legal.computing:9902

The whole copyright argument is totally irrelevant to the 
legality of using the RC4 algorithm. It has already been digested, 
reduced to formula, and rewritten by various people; I think
at least one such version is available for ftp. Use one of 
these instead of the posted code if you're worried about 
copyright.

As for trade secrets, it is not a trade secret anymore. A
reasonable person could have read and understood the original
posting without knowing that it was a trade secret. If that
person then writes a compatible program, they have violated
no law, not in California, not anywhere. No amount of blather
on sci.crypt, or unauthenticated vague rumblings from RSA
can change this fact. There exist numerous ways that the code
could have been created legally (e.g. cryptanalysis, reverse
engineering in a jurisdiction that allows it, products sold
without proper disclaimers and warnings, etc.), and there
is no way even someone religiously following the debate here
could say they "know" it was obtained improperly; I'm sure
even Mr. Sternlight, if he was being intellectually honest,
would admit to some possible ways it could be obtained. (Revealed
by God or in a Dream, if you go for that sort of thing... :-)

To take action against someone for writing code based on
an understanding derived from reading source code widely 
disseminated to the net by persons unknown (with no disclaimer,
or indication that it was a trade secret, or derived 
appropriately or inapproriately) would be analagous to 
(but weaker than) AT&T's case against BSDI. In that case they
were asserting that people could not legally write compatible 
code because they had been "tainted" by reading AT&T's source.
Note that the settlement was tantamount to AT&T losing, so we
can assume that this is not a real effective strategy. 

And whether or not the original poster now has the feds 
after him for ITAR is even more irrelevant. That's his or
her problem, and no amount of punishment of the original 
perpetrator will put the toothpaste back into the tube.
(The ultimate silliness of ITAR aside.)

Doug

P.S. One more vote for sci.crypt.babble...
