Path: msuinfo!uchinews!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!scipio.cyberstore.ca!vanbc.wimsey.com!unixg.ubc.ca!unruh
From: unruh@physics.ubc.ca (William Unruh)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,comp.security.misc,alt.privacy
Subject: Re: RC4 Algorithm revealed.
Date: 29 Sep 1994 06:16:44 GMT
Organization: The University of British Columbia
Lines: 31
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <36dm4c$acf@nntp.ucs.ubc.ca>
References: <369ohp$isg@ivory.lm.com> <strnlghtCwturJ.HA5@netcom.com> <phrCwu132.F5A@netcom.com> <36ctjs$4e2@tools.near.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: physics.ubc.ca
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:32705 alt.security:19127 comp.security.misc:12141 alt.privacy:19725

barmar@nic.near.net (Barry Margolin) writes:
>Once you become aware that information is a former secret that was revealed
>through improper means, you must treat it as a trade secret.

Sorry the word in the act is KNOW and the knowledge must be there when
the code is still a trade secret- ie is still a secret. David claims
that the act defines a secret purely by the companies actions, and that
simply will not wash. If a secret is known, even though the company acts
as though it controlled the sec=ret it is no longer a trade secret. The
act says " it is presumed". However facts can alter a presumption. Ie in
the absense of any ohter evidence, if a company acts as though a secret
is a secret than the courts will treat it as a secret. However if the
defendant can aduce facts which show that it is not a secret then those
facts will override. A presumption is not a definition. It is a bias.
And the fact of publication on the internet would I am sure override any
presumption of secrecy. To use the companies actions as definative would
be absurd. " I know this theorem that the sum of the squares of two
sides of a right triagle equal the square of the third. I will demnand
that anyone I talk to sign a non-disclosure agreement before I tell them
this secret. Under your interpretations, this fact would be a trade
secret because of the actions I take to protect it and I could sue
anyone who used it. Courts are often silly but not that silly (sorry, in
this context I define silly to mean contrary to the common man's
conception, just in case anyone thought that I was defaming the courts)

(Again, the above is a layman's interpretation of the law and is not to
be taken as legal advice by anyone.)

--
Bill Unruh
unruh@physics.ubc.ca
