Path: msuinfo!harbinger.cc.monash.edu.au!news.cs.su.oz.au!news.adelaide.edu.au!gateway.dircsa.org.au!cleese.apana.org.au!bronze!dieter
From: dieter@bronze.apana.org.au (Dieter Jansen)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Exportable (from Australia) Crypto?
Message-ID: <16oVuAyMBh107h@bronze.apana.org.au>
Date: Wed, 28 Sep 94 17:16:05 +0900
Reply-To: dieter@bronze.apana.org.au
Organization: Private UUCP node in Adelaide, Australia
Lines: 58

Hi Folks,

I have built a Kerberos-like authentication system for use with a
proprietary Client/Server transaction transport.  In it's current
form it uses DES in CBC mode to encrypt the header info, with an
MD4 digest to prevent tampering with the message body.

The application requires per-message authentication, and whilst
this is normally pretty expensive in clock cycles, I have tried to
design the formats to minimise the length of the encrypted fields,
and thus improve performance.

For the majority of transactions, the body of the message is sent
in the clear, but I have provided a facility to allow designated
'sensitive' transactions (change of password, for instance) to be
encrypted.

When using authentication only (no body encryption), performance
is quite acceptable, but encrypting the message body using DES
CBC on all messages would lead to unacceptable overheads.  So I
have been asked to consider allowing some sort of lightweight
encryption of the message bodies to prevent casual snooping.

As I may wish to export this software from Australia (yes, I am
getting in touch with the appropriate people to arrange this),
I will have to remove or weaken any optional encryption of the
message body.

By allowing a lightweight weak encryption of the message body in
the session key, I think I would meet both objectives, whilst the
authentication parts of the protocol could work as before.

I'm looking for ideas about suitable choices for a low CPU-cost
encryption technique (preferable unencumbered with controvesy
or patent and secrecy issues, such as in the case of RC4).

If I simply arranged for the session key to have an effective
40-bit length (by generating three 'parity' bits per byte, for
instance), and used that for the optional body encryption I
think I would achieve the desired weakness, but the encryption
costs would still be just as prohibitive.

Note that schemes which are fast on long messages but which use
an expensive key schedule calculation are not particularly useful
in this application, since the server needs to do a schedule
calculation for the session key of each incoming message (as the
servers must be context-free).

Anyone out there have any experience in weakened/fast crypto for
export?

Cheers, Dieter.

-- 
Dieter Jansen                    Voice: +61 8 270 2926   Fax: +61 8 370 7766
Personal: dieter@bronze.apana.org.au    Key from pgp-key@bronze.apana.org.au
Business: 100241.3706@CompuServe.com    MD5 FE22E837C7EBFB91D0DE60ADD37C654C
      "Objects are just data stuctures with an attitude" - Alex Morrow
