Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!EU.net!ub4b!idefix.CS.kuleuven.ac.be!news.sri.ucl.ac.be!jjq
From: jjq@dice.ucl.ac.be (Jean-Jacques Quisquater)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: CALL for PAPERS: EUROCRYPT '95
Date: 29 Sep 1994 14:35:28 GMT
Organization: Laboratoire de Microelectronique - Universite Catholique de Louvain
Lines: 110
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <36ejbg$5vu@sci3.sri.ucl.ac.be>
NNTP-Posting-Host: sphinx.dice.ucl.ac.be

EUROCRYPT '95

May 21 - 25, 1995,  Saint-Malo,  France

FINAL CALL FOR PAPERS

General information 
Eurocrypt '95 continues the tradition of European IACR conferences dedicated
to the theory and applications of cryptologic techniques.  Original papers 
are solicited on all aspects of cryptology.

Topics of interest 
The topics of interest include but are not limited to:
. 	Applications
. 	Authentication
. 	Combinatorial aspects
. 	Computational complexity aspects
. 	Computer security aspects
. 	Conventional cryptosystems
. 	Cryptanalysis
. 	Cryptographic hash functions
. 	Digital signatures
. 	Electronic money
. 	Foundation and theory
. 	Implementation aspects
. 	Information theoretical aspects
. 	Key distribution
. 	Number theoretical aspects
. 	Practical aspects
. 	Protocols
. 	Pseudo randomness
. 	Public key
. 	Secret sharing
. 	Standards
. 	Voting systems
. 	Zero knowledge

Instructions for authors 
Send a cover letter, one title page and 18 copies of an extended abstract to 
be received by November 21, 1994, (or postmarked by November 10, 1994 and 
sent via airmail).  The title page should contain the title, the name of the
authors, their phone and fax numbers, their postal and e-mail address and the
abstract.  The extended abstract should start with the title and the abstract,
but should be anonymous (Please, reserve the acknowledgments for the final 
version of the paper).  This should be followed by a succinct statement 
appropriate for a non-specialist reader specifying the subject addressed, 
its background, the main achievements, and their significance to cryptology.  
Technical details directed to the specialist should then follow.  A limit of 
10 single-spaced pages of 12pt type (not counting the bibliography and clearly
marked appendices) is placed on all submissions.  Since referees are not 
required to read the appendices, the paper should be intelligible without them.

Abstracts that have been or will be submitted in parallel to other conferences
or workshops that have proceedings are not eligible for submission to 
Eurocrypt.  The authors must state compliance to this rule in their cover 
letter.  A LaTex style file and an example of a cover letter will be available.

Conference proceedings 
Eurocrypt '95 will be the first Eurocrypt conference where proceedings will be
available at the meeting.  The proceedings will be published in the 
Springer-Verlag's  Lecture Notes in Computer Science.  Clear instructions 
about the final copy will be sent to the authors.  The final copies of the 
accepted papers will be due on March 6, 1995.  Authors of accepted papers 
must guarantee that their paper will be presented at the conference.

A limited number of stipends are available to those unable to obtain funding 
to attend the conference.  Students whose papers are accepted and who will 
present themselves are encouraged to apply if such an assistance is needed.  
Requests for stipends should be addressed to the general chairperson.

Program Committee 
Chaired by Louis Guillou, the following persons are the 
Members of the Program Committee:

Mihir Bellare      Johannes Buchmann   Mike Burmester             Paul Camion
Donald W. Davies   Amos Fiat           Hideki Imai                Lars Knudsen
Ueli Maurer        Birgit Pfitzmann    Jean-Jacques Quisquater    Ronald Rivest
Jacques Stern      Douglas Stinson     Moti Yung                  Gideon Yuval

Important information

Submission receipt deadline:	November 21
(or postmarked airmail: 	November 10)

Notification sent to authors: 	January 23

Final copies due: 	March 6


Send submissions to:
Louis Guillou, Program Chair
CCETT  (Eurocrypt '95)
4, rue du Clos Courtel
F-35512 Cesson-Se'vigne' Cedex
FRANCE
Tel:    +33 99 12 42 47
Fax:    +33 99 84 56 00
Email:  iacr95@ccett.fr


For other information, contact:
Franc,oise Scarabin, General Chair
CCETT  (Eurocrypt '95)
4, rue du Clos Courtel
F-35512 Cesson-Se'vigne' Cedex
FRANCE
Tel:    +33 99 12 41 98
Fax:    +33 99 12 40 98
Email:  iacr95@ccett.fr

