Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:11519 comp.org.eff.talk:11639 alt.privacy:5075 talk.politics.guns:46607
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy,talk.politics.guns
Path: msuinfo!caen!uunet!noc.near.net!inmet!inmet!dlb
From: dlb@fanny.wash.inmet.com (David Barton)
Subject: Re: Risks of Using PGP 2.0
In-Reply-To: aq817@cleveland.Freenet.Edu's message of 23 Nov 1992 09:49:48 GMT
Message-ID: <DLB.92Nov30130504@fanny.wash.inmet.com>
Sender: news@inmet.camb.inmet.com
Nntp-Posting-Host: fanny.wash
Organization: Intermetrics Inc., Washington Division, USA
References: <1eq9fsINN2fd@usenet.INS.CWRU.Edu>
Distribution: inet
Date: Mon, 30 Nov 1992 18:05:04 GMT
Lines: 36

In article <1eq9fsINN2fd@usenet.INS.CWRU.Edu>
aq817@cleveland.Freenet.Edu (Steve Crocker) writes:

   Some on this thread appear to believe that because they live
   outside the U.S. and are not U.S. citizens, that their actions need
   not comply with U.S. law. Permit me to remind you that the Supreme
   Court of the U.S. has upheld the legality of U.S. agents arresting
   foreign nationals on foreign soil for crimes against U.S. law
   committed on foreign soil.  Unless anyone expects their government
   to go to war against the U.S.  to protect them, you had better
   think twice about violating U.S. law, whoever you are and wherever
   you might be.

Oh, for Pete's sake.  The court did no such thing.  It ruled on a
fairly narrow point of law concerning an existing treaty between
Mexico and the United States.  It said nothing about the legality of
such an action.

Foreign citizens are often arrested in other countries, as part of
extradition treaties.  They are extradited and sent to the country
that requested the arrest, if the local courts agree.  This is
standard where the person is a fugitive.  It is more controversial,
but not unknown, when the crime is committed on foreign soil against
citizens of the extraditing country (for example, in the case of the
Pan Am bombing, where extradition to the United States has been
requested).

Most laws say nothing about where the crime takes place.  The question
is one of jurisdiction, which extradition treaties are designed to
address.  Mexico is justifiably outraged (IMHO) by the kidnapping of
one of its citizens.  The kidnappers should be extraditied by Mexico
and tried.  However, to say that the Court sanctioned this action is
tripe.

					Dave Barton
					dlb@hudson.wash.inmet.com
