Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:11534 alt.privacy:5092 comp.org.eff.talk:11655
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy,comp.org.eff.talk
Path: msuinfo!caen!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!eff!news.oc.com!utacfd.uta.edu!rwsys!sneaky!gordon
From: gordon@sneaky.lonestar.org (Gordon Burditt)
Subject: Re: Scenario to Ban Cash Transactions?
Message-ID: <ByKp45.J4E@sneaky.lonestar.org>
Organization: Gordon Burditt
References: <1992Nov26.182908.18881@netcom.com> <1992Nov27.114853.27325@ils.nwu.edu> <1992Nov27.230812.16910@netcom.com>
Date: Tue, 1 Dec 1992 09:02:15 GMT

>The government quietly lowered the size of transactions which must be
>reported to something in the neighborhood of $2000. I've also heard
>that jusk ASKING what the limit is at a bank will get your name sent to
>the FEDS for future investigation. Also, it is now impossible to buy

Now, suppose you find out about the limit, while, say, buying a car,
and don't like it.  (I don't think the limit's that low, but suppose
it is.)  Just about anything you do to avoid the report is in violation 
of laws against "structuring" transactions to avoid reporting.  I suspect 
all of these would be frowned upon (as in prison term):

- Dividing the payment into smaller ones spread over different days.
- Making a smaller down payment and taking a larger loan.
- Re-negotiating the price of the car downward enough to avoid reporting.
- Re-writing the purchase order to eliminate some options and reduce the
  down payment needed.
- Aborting the transaction and buying a different car from a different
  dealer, 5 years later.
- Aborting the transaction and not buying another car, ever.

Once they ask you to fill out the reporting forms, you'd better do it.
If they have asked you to fill out the reporting forms, and for some
OTHER reason you want to cancel the transaction, say, the options
you wanted aren't available, or the factory just slipped its estimate
of when the car would be ready by a month, the FILL OUT THE FORMS,
go through with the transaction, then REVERSE IT, and FILL OUT ANOTHER
SET OF FORMS for his giving the cash back.

If the government wants to discourage cash transactions, they already
have the tools to do it.  Station police at places where reportable
transactions often occur, like banks and car dealerships.  After you
start filling out the report, the cop shows up and confiscates the
suspicously large quantity of cash.  Perhaps the dealer or bank 
tellers get a "finder's fee".  "suspiciously large" is likely to
become "more than one bill or more than two bills plus coins".

Have the police deposit a large quantity of cocaine-impregnated bills
at a local bank.  (This is easy:  all of them are already.  No cocaine?
must be counterfeit.)  Wait till Friday evening when lots of people 
are cashing paychecks.  Stop people when the drug dogs react, and 
take the cash.  Deposit it in the police account at that bank.  The 
trouble is, even if you can document that this is what the police did, 
with sworn statements by all the police involved, videotape, records of
every serial number, and radar tracking of the position of every individual
bill accurate to the millimeter, you STILL probably won't get your money 
back.  After all, it had *EVIL* *DRUGS* on it.  How long will people
keep using cash?

The police take the rest of the money and use it for infrared equipment
on helecopters that can scan a residential home and give a pretty
good idea of who's sleeping with who, or the new drug-seeking 
ground-to-air missile, which is launched at random, and if it takes
out a commercial airline flight, well, someone must have had drugs
on the plane.

If you have occasion to testify in court as a witness to something, 
I'd advise taking the 5th amendment rather than admit being in
a pay toilet stall, using a pay phone, or paying for something
in cash.  They'll get you for either theft of services or possession
of financial substances.  If you get mugged and have your cash
stolen, you've got a real problem of whether to admit having it.

Thought exercise:  You are a bank officer who supervises the tellers.
Large quantities of money pass through the bank every day.  You can
get away with bringing home each day's cash, "laundering" it to
remove the cocaine by dissolving it in water or some other convenient
solvent, and return it the next day.  If necessary, you can trade
washed cash for unwashed cash, so a surprise evening bank audit
won't find any missing cash.  How many $20 bills do you have 
to have to process to get a street dosage of cocaine refined out 
of the money?

					Gordon L. Burditt
					sneaky.lonestar.org!gordon
