Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:11537 comp.org.eff.talk:11658 alt.privacy:5093
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy
Path: msuinfo!caen!uunet!psinntp!fasttech!zeke
From: zeke@fasttech.com (Bohdan Tashchuk)
Subject: drug dealers on the high seas (was Risks of Using PGP 2.0)
Message-ID: <1992Dec1.132706.26133@fasttech.com>
Organization: Fast Technology
References: <1992Nov30.215054.27329@netcom.com>
Date: Tue, 1 Dec 1992 13:27:06 GMT
Lines: 38

In <1992Nov30.215054.27329@netcom.com> dman@netcom.com (Dallman Ross) writes:

>Well, another case with a current defendant about whom I am familiar has
>to do with a ship that was 400 miles out on the high seas, transporting
>cocaine from South America and on its way to Canada.  U.S. drug
>marshalls were on the ship undercover trying to establish that some of
>the coke was intended for the U.S.  But none of it was, and the captain
>would not acquiesce to suggestions to land in the U.S. or enter its
>waters.  Nevertheless, the crew was arrested for violating U.S. drug
>laws in international waters.  The defendant I know of is currently
>trying to quash the U.S. jurisdiction, but it doesn't look good.  The
>penalty under mandatory federal sentencing for the crime he's accused of
>is life without possibility of parole; versus several years (merely) in
>Canada.  Yes, indeed, the long arm of the law has gotten a little out of
>hand for our Uncle Sam.

Perhaps some legal weasel can explain how the goverment violated the
constitutional rights of the vermin you describe.

There is a long tradition of the US government taking actions on the
"high seas" against pirates and criminals. However, because of the expense,
the government only takes action against the most egregious.

You're admitting they were caught in the act. How is this different than if
they were on land somewhere? There is no single government "in charge" of
international waters, but that doesn't mean the oceans should be a safe haven.

I'm sure they will get a fair trial before they do hard time in Marion with
the likes of John Gotti and General Pineapplehead Noriega.

Expecting me to feel sorry for admitted drug dealers is a far stretch from my
having the right to use PGP without being forced to register keys in advance.

The fact that you even cite an open-and-shut case like this makes me
understand why we have such a legal crisis and drug crisis in this country.
And, unfortunately, the government's increasingly frenetic reaction to this
crisis is steadily eroding the civil liberties of the vast majority of US
citizens who don't traffic in drugs.
