Path: msuinfo!caen!uunet!portal!cup.portal.com!Christopher_C_Lapp
From: Christopher_C_Lapp@cup.portal.com
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: RE: Frequently Unasked Questions (FUQS)
Message-ID: <70888@cup.portal.com>
Date: Fri,  4 Dec 92 02:57:01 PST
Organization: The Portal System (TM)
Distribution: usa
Lines: 118

(I may have inadvertantly made the
margins too big for UseNET, Sorry:-)!)

Here are a few frequently unasked Questions regarding 
Cryptography:

1) Is the scientific method appropriate for developing a 
cryptographic system?

Not in its usual form.  The scientific 
method does not giv e the scientist any 
clue as to how to make a hypothesis.  Thus 
science must be a slave to current 
technology and currently in-vogue hypotheses,
 because there is no systematic examination of 
values on the part of the scientist.  As an 
alternative, a scientist must be both a rationalist 
and an empiricist.  He must draw from the 
rationalist tradition to make his hypotheses, 
and test them with empirical methods.  
Specific to cryptography, the scientist must 
empathize first with his adversary, and see 
what the adversary sees and equally important, 
what the adversary does not regard as important. 
 Then, the scientist must use his empathetic, 
rationalist observations about the 
enemy to compile a list of requirements for empirical 
investigation.  Once the rationalist 
analysis is complete, he is free to 
play "scientific method" man and empirically explore  the 
relationship between reality and 
his rationalist goals.

2) Is mathematical analysis necessary for cryptography?

Mathematics is one branch of information 
theory.  Information theory is composed of 
three elements, "Data analysis," 
"Systems of order(values),
" and "data-value based actions".  Data 
analysis involves methods of perception, 
and gathering of data. Systems of 
order(values) are the study of the 
manner in which the data is ordered, 
both in real-time, and historically, so that 
predictions can be made about the speed 
and dispersion of data within a biological, 
computational, or bureaucratic organization.  
"Data-value  based actions" are the study both in 
real-time and historically, of the 
behavior of biological, computational, and 
beaurocratic systems when data has been 
dispersed according to a system of order 
or values.  Mathematics only addresses a 
very narrow system of order, and leaves 
data analysis and data-action analysis 
unaddressed.  The ideal cryptographic 
system would be based upon all three 
branches of information theory, so that 
if a  code was cracked, the information
 would still travel very slowly and 
narrowly through the adversary's 
organization, and the actions resulting 
from the analysis of the information 
would be irrelevant or harmless to 
the interests of the encrypting party. 
 One example of this is how the 
British Intelligence Service knew 
about the impending German bombing 
 of Coventry through their stolen Enigma 
machine, but decided not to act, 
because of their system of values.

3) Is cryptography fundamentally an 
machiavellian and empirical art?

No.  The end of the Cold War saw the 
defeat of the ultimate "There is no 
God-We can do whatever we want" 
system of values, Communism.   
To the degree we rely on poorly 
thought out, non-empathetic, 
non-rationalist-defined objectives,
 and confine our data to what 
we can see through our limited 
instruments, and act only in the 
belief that our system of orderly 
actions does not limit our perceptions
 and hence our ability to evolve 
our values, then we are prisioners 
of the present.   What we do not perceive
 is a result of our decisions 
making A and not B important 
(our values). When we empathize 
with our enemy we percieve things 
the way he does, and thus, 
if B is more important to our 
enemy then we learn more about 
B by empathizing than if we stayed 
with our perceptions and safely 
did not empathize with our enemy.  
The scientific method, at least 
in combat, is the handmaiden of our 
values.  And our values only 
change when we empathize with 
a party that has different 
or conflicting values.  Our 
values are only confirmed 
when we are victorious in 
conflict through actions 
that are borne of a superior 
ability to gather, digest, and 
act on information.

I hope these FUQS are of interest, at least to you spooks out there.

Any comments?
Chris Lapp
