Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:11574 comp.org.eff.talk:11725 alt.privacy:5109
Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!uwm.edu!rpi!bu.edu!acs.bu.edu!uni
From: uni@acs.bu.edu (Shaen Bernhardt)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy
Subject: Re: drug dealers on the high seas (was Risks of Using PGP 2.0)
Message-ID: <103709@bu.edu>
Date: 3 Dec 92 04:30:58 GMT
References: <1992Nov30.215054.27329@netcom.com> <1992Dec1.132706.26133@fasttech.com> <lhq9niINNjjb@exodus.Eng.Sun.COM>
Sender: news@bu.edu
Followup-To: sci.crypt
Organization: Boston University, Boston, MA, USA
Lines: 129


>>>waters.  Nevertheless, the crew was arrested for violating U.S. drug
>>>laws in international waters.  


>	Give me a break.  It's not a constitutional issue, but one of
>international law.  But of course we all know that US law supersedes any
>international law because we are the biggest armed threat in the world.

This is true to an extent, but using it in this case is crap.

>	Unless transporting cocaine in international waters is a crime, which
>I doubt, the US has no right to arrest the crew of that vessel.  

I'm afraid in many cases it is illegal, and the U.S. does

>>There is a long tradition of the US government taking actions on the
>>"high seas" against pirates and criminals.

This is true, and I support it....  Gone are the days where a suspected
terrorist or smuggler and fly over/sail to international waters and become
instantly immune...

>---
>	These people were not necessarily either. 

They don't have to be to be searched and/or boarded

> They are not criminals until
>they land in a country where cocaine importation is illegal.

Wrong.  See above and below.

There are
>a host of countries where mind altering substances illegal in the US are
>legal.  Is the US going to go in and conquer every government that doesn't
>enforce US laws?

It is in the best interest of almost all sea going nations to sign the
conventions of Law at Sea.  If they don't, they sacrifice protection for
their citizens on the high seas.  International Law is really international
agreement, and true the United States has a good deal of influence but a gun
toteing bully in the international law arena is a little excessive of a 
characterization to make.


>	It is obvious Bohdan, that you have little knowledge of international 
>law or what is 'right' or proper.  Our government doesn't have the right
>to push its agenda, by force, on other countries and people's against
>their will -- despite the fact that they do that here.
>
>-wat-

I'm afraid it does.  Among one of the many methods for this refer to the
votes of the U.N. security council, which are binding to all signators of
the U.N. Pacts.  Iraq is a nice tidy example.  I'm sure the military force
involved there was hardly welcome by the Iraqi government.


FYI:  -->

Police Activites on the High Seas

Right to Visit and Search:

A warship encountering a foreign merchant vessel on the high seas may stop the
vessel for purposes of investigation if one of the following suspicions is 
harbored by the commander of the warship or if other causes for such a 
"visit and search" are authorized for him by special treaty arrangements:
1 That the ship is engaged in piracy
2 That the ship is engaged in the slave trade
3 That the vessel, although flying a foreign flag or refusing to show a flag
  is in reality of the same nationality of the warship

Article 110 of UNCLOS III convention ammendment:  ( 1982 )
4 If the vessel is stateless (has no nationality)
5 If the vessel is engaged in unauthorized broadcasting and the warships 
  flag has jurisdiction under article 109

Article 108 of UNCLOS III convention ammendment:
  All states shall cooperate in suppressing such illict trade (in narcotics)
  engaged in by ships on the high seas in violation of international agreements
  Any state that has reasonable grounds for believing that a ship carrying its
  flag is engaged in such illicit traffic may request the cooperation of other
  states in suppressing the activity in question.

Note that many states have allowed and authorized other states to board,
search, arrest and try perpetretors of drug smuggling when vessles carrying
their flag are used in the transport of the narcotics.
(United Kingdom as an example allowed this after 1981)
See for reference:  United States v. Dominquez,  U.S. Court of Appeals, 
                    4th Cir., Aug. 10, 1979  604 F.2d 304
Other references for Jurisdiction over Vessels:

Cunard Steamship Co. v. Mellon, U.S. Supreme Court
United States v. Flores, U.S. Supreme Court

+++++

This is the problem with uneducated speculation and specific examples used to
demonstrate general concepts.  The reality is that the United States CAN and
DOES project its influence and jurisdiction beyond her borders.
No one seemed to mention the regestry of the vessel in question or the
location of the arrest.  The only issues I can see (with the limited
information given) is the regestry of the vessel, the nature of the 
suspicion that gave cause to visit and search, and the disposition of
treaty and convention of the nation where the vessel was registered.

The hard cold reality is this.  Jurisdiction on the high seas is whoever
happens to be around at the time for the most part... 

The relation to Cryptograhpy:

Nations will continue to sign off their soverignty as long as the international
pressure for them to do so remains... (as I believe it will)   Collective
security has become a more and more important priority for nations and
cryptography is likely to be the subject of several international agreements
that might remove or lessen the tactic of jurisdictional defense.  

Wake up people... the law doesn't protect as well as everyone seems to think
it does.  Liberities will be stomped on to defend against the percieved
problems of security.  This is not the age of Machiavelli boys and girls.
If crypto is thought to be a threat, it will be addressed.


Uni (Dark)
-- 
uni@acs.bu.edu  ->  Public Keys by finger and/or request
Soverignty is the sign of a Brutal Past.
