Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:11599 alt.security:8543 alt.security.pgp:394
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.security.pgp
Path: msuinfo!caen!spool.mu.edu!umn.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!rcain
From: rcain@netcom.com (Robert Cain)
Subject: Re: Questions about US/Canadian Laws about public encryption
Message-ID: <1992Dec5.220904.24510@netcom.com>
Organization: Netcom - Online Communication Services  (408 241-9760 guest) 
References: <BysM6J.76z@minerva1.bull.it>
Date: Sat, 5 Dec 1992 22:09:04 GMT
Lines: 49

alexb@minerva1.bull.it (Alessandro Bottonelli) writes:
: I have been following the security related groups for a while trying
: to understand all the discussion going on about the Legality of
: Crypto Tecniques, and I haven't been able to understand the following:
: 
:  (1) Is feeding public data or telephone networks with crypted data
:      illegal or those who posted articles on the subject were just
:      wishing it were made illegal ???

Not yet according to specific statute.

: 
:  (2) Is it illegal to crypt any form of communication (like regular
:      mail) or, as above, people are just wishing it were ?

Not yet according to specific statute.

: 
:  (3) Are there any signs that legislators are going or will regulate
:      the subject in the near or mid-term future.

There was a defeated attempt at a legislative rider that would force
communictions carriers that provided encryption services to provide
the clear text to LE under court order.

Nothing has been introduced, although there has been much speculation,
to prevent the marketing of a crypto device for attachment to a phone
line.  (That would be sorta hard by now if one considers PC's and modems
to intrinsically be such devices.)  There may be U.S. national security
laws broad enough to stop a potential seller of such a device and I
have been told that under such laws (of which I know little by definition)
a stop order can be issued by a court which you must obey but can't even
open because it carries a top secret seal and furthermore you cannot even
discuss it without looking at Leavenworth.  So it is entirely possible that
hidden laws exist to prevent sale of such devices, have been used and we
would not know it under the umbrella of U.S. national security. 

If anyone knows this to be false I would love to be wrong.  Conversely
if anyone can verify it I would appreciate that.

Bob
-- 
Bob Cain    rcain@netcom.com   408-358-2007

"There are some strings.  They're just not attached."
                                                    Victoria Roberts


               PGP 1.0 or 2.0 public key available on request.
