Path: msuinfo!caen!uunet!portal!cup.portal.com!mmm
From: mmm@cup.portal.com (Mark Robert Thorson)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Questions About Bush Crypto Engine
Message-ID: <71086@cup.portal.com>
Date: Sun,  6 Dec 92 04:00:51 PST
Organization: The Portal System (TM)
Lines: 131

In Vannevar Bush's autobiography, he describes a crypto engine
he built in the late 1930's.  Can anyone provide other references
to descriptions of this device?  The following is quoted from
_Pieces_of_the_Action_ by Vannevar Bush (Morrow, 1970), pages
192-195.

---------------------------------------

Along in the thirties the Navy got hold of me and asked me to
look into a plan they had before them.  By that time I was supposed
to know something about machine analysis, and I was vice-president
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, so I was taken in the
front door instead of the back door.  The plan was to mechanize their
cryptography section, that is, to use machinery to break an enemy's
secret cipher.  They proposed to use punched-card machinery as
originated by Hollerith and then produced for use in business by
the International Business Machines Company, the now great I.B.M.
Now this breaking of a cipher was, and is, a far more complex matter
than one would gather by reading Poe.  It is not just a matter of
shifting the letters about in accordance with a short key.  Enciphering
is done by a machine, and deciphering the same way.  The key is
very long.  If it were indefinitely long the cipher would never be
broken, except by capturing one of the machines, but then there
would be no way of getting a distant station back into step if it ever
fell out, and so a compromise is made.  The job of breaking an enemy
cipher consists of examining thousands of messages by statistical
methods, combined with a canny sort of intuition possessed by some
individuals.  I could readily get intoxicated by the subject.

I made my study and reported that punched-card methods were
not nearly fast enough, that they needed a special machine with at
least one hundred times the speed.  After a while they asked me if I
could build such a machine, and I told them I thought I could.  So
we made a contract.

It was at this point that I derived my only benefit from the under-
taking.  I learned something about government contracts with uni-
versities, and this stood me in good stead later, in the days of
N.D.R.C.  [National Defense Research Council --mmm]

I told them that I would do the work if they would pay just my out-
of-pocket costs, that M.I.T. would contribute the cost of the overhead,
that we would turn the whole thing over to the Navy and wished for
neither profit nor credit, and that I wanted a simple contract which
provided for just that, with no frills or inconvenient clauses.  They
soon laid before me a draft contract with all sorts of fancy clauses in
it, provisions for accounting, rules regarding employment, and so on.
It was brought to my hotel by a pleasant Navy captain.  I read it,
gave it back to him, told him to tell his boss to go to hell, and
started to pack my suitcase.  But he was back after a bit with a nice
simple contract, and I went back home and started work.  I think
I still have a copy of that contract, and I do not know how they did
it, that is, how they avoided all the constraints that fool legislation
had imposed on them.  They probably just ignored them and took
a chance.  It is too late to court-martial anybody about it now.  And,
later on, when I was on the other side of the fence and representing
the United States Government, I did just the same thing, of course in
a nice way and quite legally.

I went to work at M.I.T. and developed a device.  When I got the
thing built, I delivered it to the Navy.  While this was going on, only
four people at M.I.T. (Karl T. Compton, two young fellows I had
working on it, and myself) knew anything whatever about it, or
even knew the work was going on.  When I delivered the machine
to the Navy, they took over the whole thing -- all the records, all the
drawings, the machine itself, and the two men who had worked on
it -- so that nothing whatever was left at M.I.T., and I kept no copies
of anything involved in it except that unusual contract.

Then the war came along, and this machine was undoubtedly used
in connection with the breaking of the Japanese code.  I cannot judge
how instrumental it was in that regard -- I certainly know it was
used.  Some of the young fellows who had worked with me said, in
their enthusiasm, that it alone broke the code.  I know this is not
true, but I certainly know the machine was useful.

This lead to incidents that were amusing.  I remember one day some
of the intelligence people over in the Army got me into a room, shut
the door, and began to talk hush-hush.  I do not think they looked
under the pictures to see if there were any bugs present, but it was
evident that they were going to introduce me to something very
secret.  So I interrupted them to say, "Are you gentlemen going to
tell me about the breaking of the Japanese code?"  They went up in
the air about a foot, because that achievement was being held very
secret indeed, and quite properly so, for the fact that we had
solved that code gave us an enormous advantage in the Pacific
for a long while.  We were very careful not to use the information
that came out of the intercepts in a way that would give away to the
Japs the fact that we knew their code.  The military forces had given
up some very tempting opportunities rather than reveal this, so no
wonder the people in the Army were a little disturbed.  They wanted
to know how I happened to know about it.  I told them, "Well,
inasmuch as I built one of the machines you are using, and inasmuch
as I trained some of the young fellows who are working for you on
this thing, it would be very strange if I did not know something
about it."

The next incident took place after the war.  Robert A. Lovett was
then Secretary of Defense, and the section on cryptanalysis made a
request for funds in the budget.  It was very hard for anyone to
evaluate this request, because an accounting officer could not be told
what that section was doing.  Secretary Lovett asked me to look over
the program and tell him whether the budget request seemed to
make sense.  I went out and visited the section.  When I went in,
there was my machine running.  I told them I thought they were
quite alert, that they had not known that I was coming out to see
them until ten o'clock that morning, and in the meanwhile they had
got that machine out of the attic, dusted it off, and got it running,
and I thought that was pretty fast work.  They took me around the
corner, and there were six more machines just like it, all running.
Then I said that now I was sure there was something the matter
with them, that they were using obsolete machinery.  As a matter
of fact, of course, I looked over the rest of the program and told
Lovett I thought it made sense, and the section got its money in the
budget.

Visiting this section and talking with those fellows got me to
thinking again about the subject, and I came to the conclusion that
my machine was indeed obsolete.  By that time the whole art had
progressed to a point where it was questionable whether anything
more could be done.  Certainly far more speed was necessary if they
were really going to have any success.  So I wrote a memorandum
and made some suggestions for a very much faster machine of a
very different kind.  As usual on any such matters, I wrote that
memorandum in longhand, made no copies, sealed it, and sent it
to the section by special messenger.  A day or two later, a young
lieutenant commander came down to see me.  And I said, "Hope I
did not burden you too much by giving you that memorandum in
longhand, but I think that is the way to do it.  I hope you did not
have any trouble reading it -- my handwriting is pretty bad."  He
said, "You forget, sir, that our business is cryptanalysis."
