Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!sun-barr!olivea!uunet!infoserv!lila!dorsey
From: dorsey@lila.com (Bill Dorsey)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Analysis of a simple (?) transposition cipher
Message-ID: <BypLAE.1JF@lila.com>
Date: 4 Dec 92 00:27:49 GMT
Followup-To: dorsey@lila.com
Lines: 46

I am trying to analyze the following hand-generated cipher.  It is supposedly
a keyword-based transposition cipher.  

>chcnt sascu ftcoe niwni rtefd nsadw etsws iriai orndo ucooh mcanw rwsro
>cooto aymea aowre aegae otgtn evsau hwnei rfaen hdwen rfwne olhnm odgen
>rartt wvrfs eeehn yredl teans oerpd yetsl eoera euioi eapea iivti edrre
>yhneu ugdrr oloap rlrom pspis nrhre brdai dsleo rltar jfaeo ojsnl oopaf
>axsot ieorc dedyw ousun aasdr ehfis waahs ohyae reatf meoaa tiivt hpihh
>adgko tlahe esgem dewhe henso dvnet suctn fiehs ghdil awhdr tfrie gnssi
>dsite trtax

In order to make sure it is indeed just a transposition cipher, I have
checked letter frequency.  This is what I came up with:

	E - 46		N - 24
	T - 24		R - 31
	A - 34		I - 23
	O - 31		S - 25

The distribution seems a little stange, but it doesn't seem to rule out
a transposition cipher.

Next, I've searched unsuccessfully for anagrams of "the".  However, I have
found an anagram of "and" beginning with the first 'a' in the cipher.  Its
period is eight.  Following the cipher, I get "a...n...d...w...n...c..."
which doesn't make sense.  Later on, I find another anagram of "and" with
a period of two.  I get "a...n...d...e...r...w...e...l...n...o...g...n..."
which still doesn't make sense.  I've only looked for anagrams with a period
up to ten, which may explain why I haven't been able to get any further.

My understanding of a keyword based transposition cipher is that you write
the plaintext underneath the keyword in rows the same length as the keyword.
Then, you rearrange the columns such that the keyword is now in alphabetical
order.  Finally, you read the plantext off beginning with the first column,
and proceeding to the last column.  I don't think anagramming is going to
be effective against such a cipher.

What other sort of attacks can I try against such a cipher.  I'm especially
interested in computer-aided attacks against it as I understand such attacks
are the primary weakness of simple transposition ciphers.

-- 
Bill Dorsey      "Most people mistake law for justice and authority for
dorsey@lila.com   liberty.  You will hear them talk of 'liberty under law,'
ripem public key  and they are content to see it so deep under the law that
on request        it is completely obliterated." -- Herbert Spencer
