Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:11605 alt.security:8546 alt.security.pgp:395
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.security.pgp
Path: msuinfo!caen!sdd.hp.com!usc!news.service.uci.edu!unogate!mvb.saic.com!network.ucsd.edu!qualcom.qualcomm.com!servo.qualcomm.com!karn
From: karn@servo.qualcomm.com (Phil Karn)
Subject: Re: Questions about US/Canadian Laws about public encryption
Message-ID: <1992Dec6.082600.16155@qualcomm.com>
Sender: news@qualcomm.com
Nntp-Posting-Host: servo.qualcomm.com
Organization: Qualcomm, Inc
References: <BysM6J.76z@minerva1.bull.it> <1992Dec5.220904.24510@netcom.com>
Date: Sun, 6 Dec 1992 08:26:00 GMT
Lines: 58

In article <1992Dec5.220904.24510@netcom.com> rcain@netcom.com (Robert Cain) writes:
>:  (3) Are there any signs that legislators are going or will regulate
>:      the subject in the near or mid-term future.

I am unaware of any official proposals to regulate the private use of
cryptography within the US. However, several private individuals,
notably Dr. Dorothy Denning of Georgetown University, have proposed
regulations such as key registration. Given the outcry against both
the original S.266 and the FBI Digital Telephony Initiative, these
proposals have little realistic chance of becoming law soon. But this
is a politically charged topic and substantial vigilance is
appropriate.  Anyone concerned with protecting their right to privacy
through encryption would be well advised to rebut such misguided and
dangerous proposals wherever they appear.

>There may be U.S. national security
>laws broad enough to stop a potential seller of such a device and I
>have been told that under such laws (of which I know little by definition)
>a stop order can be issued by a court which you must obey but can't even
>open because it carries a top secret seal and furthermore you cannot even
>discuss it without looking at Leavenworth.  So it is entirely possible that
>hidden laws exist to prevent sale of such devices, have been used and we
>would not know it under the umbrella of U.S. national security. 

The only US law of which I am aware that could fall into this category
is the Invention Secrecy Act of 1951. If you file a patent application
on a topic that the government considers to relate to national
security, the government has the option of issuing you an "invention
secrecy order" that prohibits you from disclosing your invention to
anyone who doesn't already know about it.

This happened several times in the late 1970s with various
communication privacy inventions (Prof. George I Davida of the
University of Wisconsin was one such victim).  Apparently the law
specifies that secrecy orders expire within 1 year unless a "state of
national emergency" exists, in which case the secrecy orders continue
as long as the emergency.  And it wasn't until Sept 1978 that
President Carter bothered to end the technical state of emergency
invoked by President Truman during the Korean War. (Reference: "The
Puzzle Palace" by James Bamford, pp. 445-449.)

Yes, this really happened in the United States of America. And you
probably thought that only third world military dictatorships used
contrived states of emergency to suppress individual civil rights.

There is a theory that RSA was deliberately published before patent
applications were filed in order to avoid a possible secrecy order.
Considering the contemporary secrecy orders and the threats issued at
the time by a supposedly "unauthorized" NSA employee against RSA's
inventors when they presented their first papers, this was probably a
very real concern. So it's possible that they deliberately chose to
forego foreign patent protection (since publication immediately waives
patent filing rights in all countries but the US) as preferable to
having a secrecy order clamped on all uses of RSA. So non-US users
enjoy license-free use of RSA thanks to this particular set of
quirks in the American legal system. 

Phil
