Path: msuinfo!uchinews!ncar!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!swrinde!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!gateway
From: barrus@tree.egr.uh.edu (Karl L. Barrus)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: New Encryption
Date: 4 Dec 1992 19:27:27 -0600
Organization: UTexas Mail-to-News Gateway
Lines: 44
Sender: daemon@cs.utexas.edu
Message-ID: <9212050127.AA14933@tree.egr.uh.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: cs.utexas.edu

Erik,

> cryptomancer, nor even an aspiring one!  I have no means to, nor
> intention of, decrypting your cipher. That's for specialists like
> you, not for simple members of the general public, like me.

With all due respect, I'm going to try to state this as diplomatically
as possible.  This is not meant as a flame.

What "we're" trying to say, is that since you apparently lack
elementary cryptanalysis skills, how are you able to determine that
your system is secure?  If you can't crack the easy systems, you can't
try to crack the more complex.  And you can't make your system more
secure based on your attacking knowledge, since you don't have very
much.

Yes, I know that you think "we" are the crypto masters and would like
to see somebody back up the claim that your system is "weak".  But
consider that a mathematical definition of "weak" could still mean
that a system takes much time, trial and error to break.  I could
encrypt a message by first making multiple substitions to flatten any
historgram, transpose adjacent letters, and xor with a long string.
This is not a secure method, but if I posted ciphertext without giving
any details of my method, imagine the trial and error it would take
just to make headway!  And if your system is protecting extremely
valuable data, you must plan that enemies will be able to invest the
manpower and computer power for the attack.  Look at how ENIGMA was
broken, and how complicated it is to a person who knows how it works!

I'm just a hobbyist cryptanalysist, crypto protocols, etc. interest me
more.  I haven't decrypted the test message - I've tried an index of
coincidence attack and Zakiski's (sp?) method, but haven't made much
headway.  Now I've got finals coming up and can't devote the time
between school and work.  So maybe I too am weeded out of the expert
cryptanalysis club.

We're just saying that a fair analysis of your system can only be made
by some knowledgeable cryptanalysist who knows your algorithm.

/-----------------------------------\
| Karl L. Barrus                    |
| barrus@tree.egr.uh.edu (NeXTMail) |
| elee9sf@menudo.uh.edu             |
\-----------------------------------/
