Path: msuinfo!caen!spool.mu.edu!agate!darkstar.UCSC.EDU!cats.ucsc.edu!haynes
From: haynes@cats.ucsc.edu (Jim Haynes)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Amusing Item from an Old Book
Date: 8 Dec 1992 07:47:06 GMT
Organization: University of California; Santa Cruz
Lines: 37
Message-ID: <1g1jtqINN374@darkstar.UCSC.EDU>
NNTP-Posting-Host: hobbes.ucsc.edu


I'm currently reading Alvin F. Harlow's "Old Wires and New Waves" of
1936.  It's mostly about the history of the telegraph and telephone
business; but there is a chapter on wartime communications and another
on what was then present-day technology.  He has just described the
speech scrambler used on international radiotelephone circuits,
assuring the reader that it is perfectly secure (except that one
Joseph L. Richey has worked with the machine for so long that he can
talk and write the scrambled language).  Then he says
   
   "And speaking of scrambling, here is a believe-it-or-not
   story for the reader to chew upon.  During the recent war,
   the A. E. F. [American Expeditionary Force] wanted a more
   baffling telegraph cipher code than any yet devised.  Whereupon
   an obliging Bell Telephone engineer named Vernam produced an
   enciphering machine which, when English is typed into it, turns
   it into what is declared to be an undecipherable cipher,
   written on a tape.  Only the sister machine at the other
   terminus can turn it back into real language.  But this isn't
   all.  A. Lincoln Lavine, in his book, "Circuits of Victory"
   assures us that Vernam even trained this robot to translate
   from one language to another.  At Paris, you typed "Do you
   speak French?" into it, and if desired, it came out at
   Chaumont, "Parlez vous Francais?" "I would not have believed
   this," says Mr. Lavine, "if I had not seen it done."

I looked up this Lavine in the online library catalog.  There are
several copies of his book in storage facilities; he is the author
of several other books in the field of business law.
-- 
haynes@cats.ucsc.edu
haynes@cats.bitnet

"Ya can argue all ya wanna, but it's dif'rent than it was!"
"No it aint!  But ya gotta know the territory!"
        Meredith Willson: "The Music Man"

