Path: msuinfo!caen!uunet!cs.utexas.edu!wupost!darwin.sura.net!jvnc.net!rutgers!igor.rutgers.edu!zodiac.rutgers.edu!leichter
From: leichter@zodiac.rutgers.edu
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Chosen crypto-text attack on RSAREFRESH
Message-ID: <1992Dec8.094133.1@zodiac.rutgers.edu>
Date: 8 Dec 92 14:41:33 GMT
References: <921208030159.139735@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Sender: news@igor.rutgers.edu
Organization: Rutgers University Department of Computer Science
Lines: 75
Nntp-Posting-Host: pisces.rutgers.edu

In article <921208030159.139735@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>,
WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL writes:
| 
| The first time I heard such an attack described I was still in short
| pants.  It was certainly long before the invention of RSA.  The attacks
| described here are simply playback attacks.  These attacks are
| spoofs by the attacker to get the sender to decrypt the traffic for her.
| 
| These attacks do not result in a compromise of the cipher.  That is they
| do not reduce the cost of subsequent attacks.  Rather, they are attacks
| against the user of the cipher.  They are attacks against the system.
| 
| All systems are vulnerable to this class of attack.  It is in part to resist
| such attacks that we introduce time stamps and sequence numbers into our
| traffic.  Note that if I alter the message, for example by introducing
| the time into it, a reasonable thing to do in a confirmation, before
| sending it to Eve, then when she decrypts, she gets garbage.  
| 
| These attacks result in the recovery of some, but rarely all, traffic.
| They do not result in recovery of the key.  They are certainly not, as
| the thread might suggest, "chosen plaintext" attacks, the purpose of
| which is to recover the key.

This is basically true, but it does require a bit of qualification - or,
better, expansion:

	- The use of time stamps, sequence numbers and such - the whole
		class of such things is described as the class of "nonces",
		values that are unique to each message, and *can be recognized
		by the receiver* as being unique - is an essential component
		of a secure cryptographic protocol.  It's exactly this old,
		old set of techniques that those who learn about modern
		mathematical cryptography in a burst of enthusiasm THINK can
		be ignored as "old hat".  They are wrong.

	- Proving that a particular protocol based on nonces actually protects
		what you think it protects is NOT easy.  There is a well
		developed theory of cryptographic PROTOCOLS, as opposed to
		cryptographic FUNCTIONS, which looks at this stuff.  (If you
		are interested in the literature, search for papers by
		Needham, Schroeder, and Burrows, in various combinations and
		permutations.  Look for work on things like "logics of
		authentications".  I don't have any of these handy or I'd
		give a citation.)  This work is NOT simple, and the results
		are NOT trivial.  Some of the papers by these authors take
		published protocols, which on even a fairly close look appear
		to be quite secure, and poke holes in them.

	- In the old days, when messages were sent to people and acknowledged
		by people, replay and related attacks were difficult to use
		for more than a tiny fraction of message traffic.  People are
		very good at noticing nonsense, or conversely at noticing
		unexpected patterns.

		These days, when many encrypted messages are sent from machine
		to machine, the situation is very different.  If you expect a
		machine to notice nonsense or unexpected patterns, you have to
		do a lot of careful programming.  No matter how good your
		programming, fooling a monitoring program is easier then
		fooling an intelligent monitoring person.  Once you've found
		a way to fool the program, you can get much more information
		out much more quickly than you could from a human being.

	- The well-understood mathematical structure of some of today's
		systems broadens the range of possible attacks.  I gave one
		simple example in a previous message (of hiding a replay
		attack against RSA by "multiplying under the encryption").

Anyone who claims to understand cryptography had better have read David
Kahn's classic, in the hardcover version - or they're just pretenders.
(Actually, I'll add another "must read":  Peter Wright's Spycatcher.  If
you haven't read what he has to say about the Vernona intercepts, you don't
understand what a massive cryptanalytic program is really all about.)

							-- Jerry
