Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!scss3.cl.msu.edu!mrr
From: mrr@scss3.cl.msu.edu (Mark Riordan)
Subject: RIPEM Distributors Wanted
Message-ID: <1992Dec13.025901.2625@msuinfo.cl.msu.edu>
Summary: I need your FTP site
Sender: news@msuinfo.cl.msu.edu
Organization: Michigan State University
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL6]
Date: Sun, 13 Dec 92 02:59:01 GMT

Dear netters,

As many of you know, I have been working on an RSAREF-based email
public key encryption program named RIPEM.  RIPEM has been in beta test
for several months now, and it has (arguably) been ready for general
release for a while.  I have been waiting for administrators from a
local site to give permission to use that site for distributing an
official release of RIPEM.  While I still expect to get permission
eventually, the process is taking somewhat longer than expected.

Therefore, I am now seeking distribution sites for the impending
official release of RIPEM 1.0.

I would very much appreciate volunteers who will allow their site to be
used to distribute RIPEM and to run the public key server.  This would
entail running an FTP server, making a few additions to your Unix
machine's /etc/aliases file, and running a few server daemons.  To help
you comply with crypto export restrictions, I can provide either of two
FTP servers I have modified.  One attempts to restrict inbound
anonymous FTP users to sites in the United States and Canada.  The
other allows you to create special FTP guest accounts that require a
special username and password that can be used only from a particular
Internet node specific to that username.  If you choose this second,
more paranoid FTP server, I would be willing to administer the accounts
if you give me a Unix account on your machine.  (It doesn't have to be a
root account; these are special FTP-only ids being administered and not
Unix ids.)

Since we will be taking precautions to not export the software, and
since we have the explicit blessing of RSA Data Security, there would
seem to be little risk in distributing RIPEM.

If you have a "stable" machine and are willing to have it used to
distribute RIPEM and to run the key server, please contact me.

Thank you.

Mark Riordan    mrr@scss3.cl.msu.edu
