Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:11724 alt.society.civil-liberty:7647
Path: msuinfo!caen!uwm.edu!wupost!crcnis1.unl.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!engr.uark.edu!mbox.ualr.edu!grapevine!jim.wenzel
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.society.civil-liberty
Subject: Re: Limits on the Use of Cryptography?
Message-ID: <2338.517.uupcb@grapevine.lrk.ar.us>
From: jim.wenzel@grapevine.lrk.ar.us (Jim Wenzel) 
Date: 12 Dec 92 21:37:00 GMT
Reply-To: jim.wenzel@grapevine.lrk.ar.us (Jim Wenzel) 
Distribution: world
Organization: The GrapeVine BBS *** N. Little Rock, AR *** (501) 753-8121
Lines: 40



Iain Mccord *   The  case you  are talking  about is  one where you have
              shown that the investigating officers have already decided
              that  the  defendant  is  guilty.  The  lack  of any other
              evidence  than  some  encrypted  data  on  a computer disc
              indicates,  to  me,  that  they  are  more  interested  in
              harassing him than the possibility  that they may have the
              wrong man.
                                 = = =


    Actually  I  know  very  little  about  the  case  and  only  posted
    originally  as I  thought it  would be  of interest  to this  group.
    Primarily  because   it  presented  some   interesting  'real  life'
    questions.

    These things  I do know (or  have learned from others  who know.)

    The 'suspect' is a repeat offender.
    It is common for pedophiles to keep diaries.

    I  need to  make this  plain, I  do not  agree with  the limits that
    law-enforcement is  able to operate  within. I do  know that if/when
    you encrypt a file with PGP it has *your* signature on it. I do know
    that law-enforcement has extraordinary means at times to bypass some
    of  our basic  freedoms. I  am not  condoning these  methods, merely
    passing them on for comment.

    I am as  interested as anyone on the  conversation that ensues based
    on these actions but, I must make this plain:

    I DO NOT  CONDONE THE CASE NOR AM I  AN ACTIVIST FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT
    OFFICIALS. Merely  a concerned citizen  and sysop who  believes very
    strongly in our  (US) bill of rights and the  travesty that has been
    placed upon it under the "War on Drugs" regime.

---
 * SM 1.06 A0059 * "Hex Dump" - Where Witches put used Curses?
                                                            
