Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:11812 alt.security.pgp:500
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Path: msuinfo!caen!uwm.edu!linac!uchinews!lucpum.it.luc.edu!lucpul.it.luc.edu!hmiller
From: hmiller@lucpul.it.luc.edu (Hugh Miller)
Subject: Re: PKP/RSA comments on PGP legality
Message-ID: <hmiller.724447021@lucpul.it.luc.edu>
Sender: root@lucpum.it.luc.edu (System PRIVILEGED Account)
Organization: Loyola University Chicago
References: <1galtnINNhn5@transfer.stratus.com> <hmiller.724397340@lucpul.it.luc.edu> <1992Dec15.110814.27222@netcom.com>
Date: Tue, 15 Dec 1992 19:17:01 GMT
Lines: 56

    I think it best to pass over most of Mr. Sternlights remarks in silence.
The reader should compare my posting with his and see how they square up.

    But I would just just like to follow up on his mention of Info-PGP Digest.
Info-PGP Digest (headerfile below) consists mostly of articles posted to
alt.security.pgp and sci.crypt, with a few independent submissions.  It is
intended for persons interested in PGP who lack access to alt.security.pgp.
If you have access to this group, a subscription to Info-PGP would be
redundant.  So, as to what kind of foolishness goes on there -- well, the same
that goes on here, I guess.

    I think a recent issue even included Mr. Sternlight's confession of faith
in the moral uprightness of federal government agencies.  \;-)

    Cheers, and happy holidays to all, including Jim Bidzos and the good folks
at RSADSI/PKP!

    -=- Hugh

-------------

    Info-PGP is a digested mailing list dedicated to discussion of Philip
Zimmermann's `Pretty Good Privacy' (PGP) public-key encryption program for
MS-DOS, Unix, VMS, Atari, Amiga, SPARC, Macintosh, and (hopefully) other
operating systems.  It is primarily intended for users on Internet sites
without access to the `alt.security.pgp' newsgroup.  Most submissions to
alt.security.pgp will be saved to Info-PGP, as well as occasional relevant
articles from sci.crypt or other newsgroups.  Info-PGP will also contain
mailings directed to the list address.
    To SUBSCRIBE to Info-PGP, please send a (polite) note to
info-pgp-request@lucpul.it.luc.edu.  This is not a mailserver; there is a
human being on the other end, and bodiless messages with "Subject:" lines
reading "SUBSCRIBE INFO-PGP" will be ignored until the sender develops
manners.  To SUBMIT material for posting to Info-PGP, please mail to
info-pgp@lucpul.it.luc.edu.  In both cases, PLEASE include your name and
Internet "From:" address.  Submissions will be posted pretty well as received,
although the list maintainer / moderator reserves the right to omit redundant
messages, trim bloated headers & .sigs, and other such minor piffle.  I will
not be able to acknowledge submissions, nor, I regret, will I be able to pass
posts on to alt.security.pgp for those whose sites lack access.
    Due to U.S. export restrictions on cryptographic software, I regret that I
cannot include postings containing actual source code (or compiled binaries)
of same.  For the time being at least I am including patches under the same
ukase.  I regret having to do this, but the law, howbeit unjust, is the law.
If a European reader would like to handle that end of things, perhaps run a
"Info-PGP-Code" digest or somesuch, maybe this little problem could be worked
around.
    I have received a promise of some space on an anonymous-ftp'able Internet
site for back issues of Info-PGP Digest.  Full details as soon as they firm
up.
    Oh, yes: ALL CONTRIBUTIONS CONSIDERED AS PERSONAL COMMENTS; STANDARD
DISCLAIMERS APPLY.

-- 
Hugh Miller         | Dept. of Philosophy | Loyola University of Chicago
Voice: 312-508-2727 |  FAX: 312-508-2292  |    hmiller@lucpul.it.luc.edu
