Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: oldmsuinfo!msuinfo!caen!uunet!uunet.ca!rose!usenet
From: robert.heuman@rose.com (robert heuman)
Subject: Legal Stuff!
Organization: Rose Media Inc, Toronto, Ontario.
Date: Mon, 21 Dec 1992 08:19:15 GMT
Message-ID: <1992Dec21.081918.11091@rose.com>
Sender: usenet@rose.com (Usenet Gateway)
X-Gated-By: Usenet <==> RoseMail Gateway (v1.70)
Lines: 36


Date Entered: 12-21-92 03:11
strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) wrote:

S(> ripem was coded in the U.S. and uses DES. DES cannot be exported
S(> outside a few specific countries without a license which will not be
S(> granted by the U.S. authorities. Thus ripem is not legally available
S(> there. Since ripem's use of RSA's patented technology is licensed by
S(> RSA, it does not violate their patents in the U.S.

The irony of this is that DES is available world-wide anyway.  There 
is little difficult programming it, and therefore software 
implementations have been done, both inside and outside the US.  In 
addition, since DES in software is unacceptable for secure cyptology 
use, DES chips have been built.  One source was the USSR (now Russia). 
Other sources include Germany, Holland, etc. Hardware DES devices can 
be purchased from many countries as well, including Twaiwan, Canada, 
England, etc.  Therefore the effect of the COCOM and US rules is to 
deny the US chip maker a worldwide market, and instead give it to 
other nations.  DES is in use WORLDWIDE for financial transactions 
such as funds transfer, to protect the messages, and this use is even 
sanctioned by the US, so licenses are readily granted in this case, 
to almost anyone exporting to a Bank, anywhere in the world (or so I 
understand - anyone wanting to comment, feel free to jump in...). 
Therefore the point of the export restrictions on DES seems to have 
been lost along the way.

David, do not use DES as an example for RIPEM... unless you feel that 
the latter will end up as the former, around the world and widely 
available and used, export controls notwithstanding.

Bob
 
---
   RoseReader 1.70 P001886: This Canadian has an Opinion...His Own!
   RM 2.00 : RoseNet<=>Usenet Gateway : Rose Media 416-733-2285
