Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: oldmsuinfo!msuinfo!caen!spool.mu.edu!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!linac!att!cbnewsk!cbnewsj!att-out!walter!qualcom.qualcomm.com!servo.qualcomm.com!karn
From: karn@servo.qualcomm.com (Phil Karn)
Subject: Re: PKP/RSA comments on PGP legality
Message-ID: <1992Dec22.060047.6744@qualcomm.com>
Sender: news@qualcomm.com
Nntp-Posting-Host: servo.qualcomm.com
Organization: Qualcomm, Inc
References: <1992Dec19.000207.15616@netcom.com> <a_rubin.724967325@dn66> <1992Dec22.003359.1777@netcom.com>
Date: Tue, 22 Dec 1992 06:00:47 GMT
Lines: 57

In article <1992Dec22.003359.1777@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:
>First of all the language of the act I posted makes clear that
>software, algorithms, flow charts are all controlled matter in the
>cryptographic area.

I wonder if the name "Joseph A Meyer" rings a bell to Mr. Sternlight.

Meyer was the NSA employee who in 1977 wrote an (unauthorized,
according to the official story of the incident) letter to the IEEE
warning that the scheduled presentation of the original RSA papers
would violate the ITARs.  To quote from the account in "The Puzzle
Palace" by James Bamford:

"He had a point. The ITAR did cover any 'unclassified information that
can be used, or adapted for use, in the design, production,
manufacture, repair, overhaul, processing, engineering, development,
operation, maintenance, or reconstruction' of the listed materials, as
well as 'any technology which advances the state-of-the-art or
establishes a new art in an area of significant military applicability
in the United States'. And export did include transferring the
information both by writing and by either oral or visual means,
including briefings and symposia in which foreign nationals are
present.

"But followed literally, the vague, overly broad regulations would
seem to require that anyone planning to write or speak out publicly on
any technology touching the Munitions List must first get approval
from the State Department -- a chilling prospect clearly at odds with
the First Amendment and one as yet untested by the Supreme Court".
(end of excerpt)

Those familiar with the story know that in the resulting furor, the
NSA disavowed Meyer's actions. And no action was ever taken against
the inventors of RSA, despite the fact that their "disclosure"
arguably enhanced foreign cryptographic capabilities far more than
anything released since then, including software packages like PGP.

After all, PGP is merely an implementation of an algorithm that is now
well known all over the world, thanks to R, S and A having stood up to
Mr. Meyer (or the NSA, depending on who you believe) for the First
Amendment. I do not mean to disparage all the work that went into PGP,
but any competent and motivated C programmer could have produced
something comparable. Indeed, there are other independent RSA
implementations from outside the US, such as the "CRYPTOS" package
from Moscow.

Face it, the NSA knows that they can't hold back the rising tide of
cryptography forever.  They know that their ban on exporting widely
available public domain encryption software wouldn't have a chance in
court, and that it will probably be eliminated by the Clinton
administration anyway (if recent news reports are accurate). But that
doesn't keep them from doing their utmost (short of going to court, of
course) to delay the inevitable.  And people like Mr. Sternlight help
make things just a little easier for them.

Phil

