Xref: oldmsuinfo sci.crypt:12225 alt.security.pgp:781
Path: oldmsuinfo!msuinfo!caen!saimiri.primate.wisc.edu!usenet.coe.montana.edu!news.u.washington.edu!ogicse!psgrain!hippo!ee.und.ac.za!csir.co.za!phyrql!lucio
From: lucio@phyrql.Alt.ZA (Lucio de Re)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Subject: Re: PKP/RSA comments on PGP legality
Message-ID: <1992Dec23.173140.10779@phyrql.Alt.ZA>
Date: 23 Dec 92 17:31:40 GMT
Article-I.D.: phyrql.1992Dec23.173140.10779
References: <bontchev.724946717@fbihh> <1992Dec21.194928.2449@netcom.com> <bontchev.725036591@fbihh> <1992Dec22.203159.23174@netcom.com>
Reply-To: lucio@proxima.Alt.ZA
Organization: MegaByte Digital Communications
Lines: 52

strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:

>In Europe, where I have never argued RSA's patents apply, and I have
>never argued the U.S. Munitions laws apply, I argue the ethics of
>taking an invention without compensation.  Like most such discussions
>here, these arguments have evolved as we learn from each other. That
>argument also applies in the U.S.

[ ... deletions ... ]

>In the case of Vesselin, specifically, I suggest he check out
>the German crypto and Munitions laws, since that's where he
>apparently has PGP on a computer. If he's planning to use it
>in Bulgaria, he may also wish to check out those laws.

In South Africa (that's where I'm at), there have been no changes to the
anti-communist paranoia of the early apartheid era and data encryption
is taboo, almost in all forms.  I used the opportunity to needle a couple
of spooks (National Intelligence Service) about PGP when they were
attending a course in adjacent offices.  I must admit that they managed
to keep a straight face.

On the other hand, I agree with Phil Zimmermann's feelings that the
public is entitled to protection from the state and PGP provides such
protection.  Like other weapons (and it can be labelled a defense
weapon) it can fall in the hands of miscreants, but, like for South
Africa, the era of Secret Service paranoia is past and PKP's strangle-
hold on Public Key encryption is superfluous and counterproductive.

I'd like to put the entire matter into perspective, but too many issues
have been confused together.  One that I would like to bring up is
David Sternlight's claim that the inventors of RSA deserve compensation.

(a) They probably have already received a fair amount, following
    publication: publicity, job offers,...

(b) Their research, I understand, was produced under Gov't grant. Thus
    they were paid to deliver the goods, at the tax-payers' expense.

The bottom line is that I have little use for PGP but will make it
available to those around me who may find it useful.  I may even find
it essential to use it to sign my NetNews postings in solidarity
with use worldwide.  It is a shame that US nationals may not use it
and I believe the correct approach may be to lobby for changes to
legislation and other legal activities that will remove the obstacles.

If any person or organisation is prepared to tackle PKP and/or the
State Department on these issues, they can count on what little
support may be available for me to provide.
-- 
Lucio de Re (lucio@phyrql.Alt.ZA)
The supernatural does not exist, but it gives me the creeps...
