Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: oldmsuinfo!msuinfo!caen!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!umn.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: PKP/RSA comments on P
Message-ID: <1992Dec25.194109.15060@netcom.com>
Organization: Netcom - Online Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
References: <931.204.uupcb@ssr.com>
Date: Fri, 25 Dec 1992 19:41:09 GMT
Lines: 48

In article <931.204.uupcb@ssr.com> dick.zeitlin%acc1bbs@ssr.com (Dick Zeitlin)  writes:

>Cryptography is certainly one mechanism for message concealment, but
>there are many others.  I hope you're not suggesting that all message
>concealment should be discouraged.

No, I wasn't even suggesting that cryptography should be discouraged.
With respect to my massage about 'lives saved and lost' the only
purpose of that statement was to refute what I thought was the
ridiculous claim that governments should be just as interested in
leaks of airplane dimensions of the sort that show up in Japanese
plastic models as they should be in cryptography. I was showing the
much greater importance to governments of cryptography than plastic
plane models. That someone should attempt to challenge the
self-evident notion that governments are strongly interested in
cryptography shows the ridiculous level this discussion has sunk to on
the part of some.

------- 

On the general sub-subject--not directed to Dick Zeitlin:

That some others should attempt to turn that into a discussion of
"what about the enemy dead?" which was totally irrelevant to my point
about the importance governments give all this, shows something else
about the behavior of some here, but rather than saying what I think
that is (which will just spin off yet another sub-thread to little
purpose), I'll leave speculation about that in the mind of the reader.

The more I participate here, the more i realize that this place is
not a rational discussion forum for some, but a zoo. One correspondent
even sent me an e-mail charging me with racism for mentioning that
the Purple decryption saved American lives, and the Enigma decryption
saved British lives, both heavily documented facts.

Before I get yet another loutish e-mail screed, let me say that I'm
sure any Japanese or German decryptions also saved Japanese or German
lives.  The point in this sub-discussion is the importance with which
governments take cryptography, not whose lives are more valuable.

David



-- 
David Sternlight
RIPEM Public Key on server  --  Consider it an envelope for your e-mail

