Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: oldmsuinfo!msuinfo!caen!spool.mu.edu!uunet!mcsun!chsun!bernina!caronni
From: caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch (Germano Caronni)
Subject: Re: help - recommend a crypto book.
Message-ID: <1992Dec28.001117.25270@bernina.ethz.ch>
Keywords: crypto book code cipher DES etc
Sender: news@bernina.ethz.ch (USENET News System)
Organization: Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH), Zurich, CH
References: <85743@ut-emx.uucp>
Date: Mon, 28 Dec 1992 00:11:17 GMT
Lines: 45

In article <85743@ut-emx.uucp> vax@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (Vax) writes:
>Could someone recommend a book about cryptograhy (specifically computer
>related) to someone of the following qualifications?


Contemporary Cryptology - The science of Information Integrity
(c) 1992 - IEEE Press NY. IEEE Order Number: PC0271-7
ISBN: 0-87942-277-7

This is no educative book, but contains some good to read
introductions, and in depth explanations about some topics.
It's merely a collection of papers with LOTS of pointers to
other literature which will help you to enlarge your understanding
Contains:
Massey: Introduction into Cryptology
Smid&Branstad: DES - Past and Future
Rueppel:Stream Ciphers (and rng's)
Diffie:First 10 Years of Public Key Cryptology
Nechvatal: Public Key Cryptography
Oorschot: Comparison of PKC's basedon Integer factorizing & discr. logs.
--
Mitchell,Piper&Wild:Digital Signatures
Simmons:A survey of Information Authentication
--
Feigenbaum:Interactive Proof-Systems and 0-Knowledge
Simmons:Intro to shared Secret and/or Shared Control
--
Brickwell&Odlyzko:Cryptanalysis:A survey of recent results
Moore:Protocol Failures in Cryptosystems
--
Guillou,Ugon,Quisquater:The smart cart...
Simmons:How to insure that data acquired to verify treaty compliance are trustworthy

total 630 pages: ranges from 'understandable' to 'highly mathematical'

But I suppose some lectures first on Information Theory and Number Theory
and eventually Statistics could help.

Friendly greetings,
	gec
-- 
Instruments register only through things they're designed to register.
Space still contains infinite unknowns.

Germano Caronni    caronni@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch
