Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!swrinde!cs.utexas.edu!convex!news.duke.edu!eff!news.umbc.edu!olson
From: olson@umbc.edu (Bryan G. Olson; CMSC (G))
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto
Subject: Re: Micali's Fair Cryptosystems
Date: 31 May 1994 21:01:05 GMT
Organization: University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Lines: 51
Message-ID: <2sg8ih$ah2@news.umbc.edu>
References: <2s519gINNhld@life.ai.mit.edu> <jamesdCqH8FM.Gu@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: umbc7.umbc.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:28225 talk.politics.crypto:5798


James A. Donald (jamesd@netcom.com) wrote:
: Rich Lethin (lethin@toast.ai.mit.edu) wrote:
[Heard about Silvio Micali's Fair cryptosystem]
: > Basically, it seems to be a
: > protocol for extending a public key algorithm into a k-escrow system.  This
: > apparently differs from the Clipper chip in that algorithmic details are
: > well publicized.

: And therefore the government would only ba able to read your mail
: with a warrant, etc.

: Fairly useless.

A fair cryptosystem has some key properties Clipper lacks.

It's been a while since I looked at the paper, but the
system has the following properties:

  - The key user can generate his own key, and provide
    partial information to each escrow agent.

  - Honest escrow agents can verify that the partial
    information combines to form the private key
    corresponding to the user's known public key, without
    giving additional key information to any agent.  
    (A dishonest user can not fool the escrow agents.)

  - If just one escrow agent is honest, all the others
    working together can only break the system if they
    can also break the system without the partial 
    information they were given.

With Clipper you have to trust the unknown algorithm, while
the fair cryptosystem uses a known, public-key algorithm.

Clipper requires a user to trust the key manufacture not to
make any record of the key, other than that given to the
escrow agents.  A fair cryptosystem allows the user to
generate his own key.

Clipper has just two escrow agents, not of the user's
choosing.  A fair cryptosystem would allow some authority
to license escrow agents, then the user could choose the
agents she wants to use.


I still hope to see the word use un-escrowed encryption,
but a fair cryptosystem is sure better than Clipper.

--Bryan
