Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!dsinc!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!eff!news.umbc.edu!olson
From: olson@umbc.edu (Bryan G. Olson; CMSC (G))
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto
Subject: Re: NYT new or obvious flaw in Clipper
Date: 2 Jun 1994 23:18:29 GMT
Organization: University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Lines: 38
Message-ID: <2slpc5$nbj@news.umbc.edu>
References: <2skudi$3vi@hebron.connected.com> <PERRY.94Jun2162746@snark.imsi.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: umbc7.umbc.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:28309 talk.politics.crypto:5831

Perry E. Metzger (perry@snark.imsi.com) wrote:
: Well, Matt Blaze has discovered that it turns out that one can just
: exhaustively generate LEAFs until one finds valid ones -- one in in
: 2^16 will work. All you do then is pass a forged LEAF to the other
: Tessera card, and presto -- you can interoperate with Escrowed
: Encryption, but defeat the escrow. (There are some subtleties with
: initialization vectors, but they turn out not to matter.)

Thanks for the info.  More Questions:

Can the 2^16 space be searched off-line ?  Can I pre-compute a list of
forged LEAFs and use one of them at call set-up ?  If so, do I need
two chips to do this?  It may not be possible since I have to use a
negotiated session key, which none of the pre-computed LEAFs would
match.

If it can't be done truly off line, can it be done semi-off line ?
Here I would be connecting to Alice's computer/phone and we'd
negotiate a session key.  I would then compute faked LEAFs and feed
them to a second clipper chip of mine, until that chip accepts one.
Will Alice's chip accept this one too ?

If both sides of the call have special crypto stuff, they can
superencrypt the LEAF between Clipper chips, so this flaw is only
useful if I don't need special help from Alice's system to exploit it.

If one side of the call has a forged LEAF, does that mean the
escrowed keys can't get data sent from that side, received by
that side or either ?  I'm guessing sent only.

How long does it take a Clipper chip to accept or reject a LEAF ?  I
wonder of this time will go up in later versions.

I'd like to hear anything someone may know on these, or any pointers
to papers with details


--Bryan Olson
