Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: DSS NIST Fact Sheet, 44/5
From: kari.laine@compart.fi (Kari Laine)
Path: msuinfo!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!overload.lbl.gov!lll-winken.llnl.gov!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!EU.net!sunic!news.funet.fi!news.eunet.fi!gate.compart.fi!compart!kari.laine
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <1f.12338.2417.0NC7BFED@compart.fi>
References: <2rt7fs$4ep@search01.news.aol.com>
Date: Sat,  4 Jun 94 01:19:00 +0200
Organization: ComPart BBS - Helsinki, Finland - +358-0-506-3329 (V.32bis)
Lines: 102

Subject: DSS NIST Fact Sheet, 5/20/94

(Continued from previous message)

                          Supporting Functions

Functions needed to support the use of the DSS include:

>    The SHS is required to generate a message digest.  A message
digest
     is a condensed representation of the information to be signed.
     Using the SHS, it is computationally infeasible to find a
message
     which corresponds to a given message digest, or to find two
     different messages which will produce the same message digest.

>    To use the DSS, a party must be able to generate random numbers
to
     produce the public/private key pair and to compute the
signature.
     Random numbers can be generated either by a true noise hardware
     randomizer or by using a pseudorandom number generator.  One
     approved pseudorandom number generator is the key generation
     methodology found in Appendix C of the ANSI X9.17, "Financial
     Institution Key Management (Wholesale)."

>    A means of associating public and private key pairs to the
     corresponding users is required.  That is, there must be a
binding
     of a user's identity and the user's public key.  This binding
may
     be certified by a mutually trusted party.  For example, a
     certifying authority could sign credentials containing a user's
     public key and identity to form a certificate.  Systems for
     certifying credentials and distributing certificates are beyond
the
     scope of the DSS.

User, legal, and technical issues related to the establishment and
operation of digital signature infrastructure are being explored.
For
example, users may require the ability to register their public key
in a
directory or obtain a time/date stamp for legal documents.  Legal
issues
such as the liabilities of the certificate management authority, the
admissibility of digitally signed evidence, and the responsibilities
of
various federal agencies in supporting the use of the DSS must be
examined.  Some technical requirements which must be addressed
include
the interrelationships among users and user communities necessary for
providing services such as certifying credentials and distributing
certificates; the need to interoperate with private sector and
international certificate authorities; and the need to provide users
with the ability to withdraw or immediately revoke their public key
and
provide notification to the appropriate certificate and directory
authorities.

NIST expects that this work will harmonize with applicable
international
standards such as CCITT X.400 Recommendations, standards for
electronic
mail, and CCITT X.500, Standards for directory services.


                        Applicability of the DSS

FIPS 186, DSS, is the governmentwide standard for use by all federal
agencies including defense agencies which require a public key
cryptographic signature system for unclassified information.

In addition, NIST has been informed by Department of Defense
authorities
that the DSS may be used to sign unclassified information processed
by
"Warner Amendment" systems (10 U.S.C. 2315 and 44 U.S.C. 3502[2]) and
classified data in selected applications.

The General Accounting Office (GAO) has also issued a decision
regarding
the use of electronic signatures to create valid contractual
obligations
which can be recorded as consistent with 31 U.S.C. 1501.  Under
Comptroller General Decision B-245714, the GAO has concluded that
"Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) systems using message
authentication
codes which follow NIST's FIPS 113, Computer Data Authentication, or
digital signatures following NIST's FIPS 186, Digital Signature
Standard, can produce a form of evidence that is acceptable under
section 1501."


                          Reference Documents

FIPS 186, "Digital Signature Standard (DSS)", specifies a Digital
Signature Algorithm appropriate for applications requiring a digital

(Continued to next message)
---
 * QMPro 1.51 * Dogs come when you call. Cats have answering machines.
