Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: DSS NIST Fact Sheet, 43/5
From: kari.laine@compart.fi (Kari Laine)
Path: msuinfo!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!overload.lbl.gov!lll-winken.llnl.gov!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!EU.net!sunic!news.funet.fi!news.eunet.fi!gate.compart.fi!compart!kari.laine
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <1f.12337.2417.0NC7BFEC@compart.fi>
References: <2rt7fs$4ep@search01.news.aol.com>
Date: Sat,  4 Jun 94 01:19:00 +0200
Organization: ComPart BBS - Helsinki, Finland - +358-0-506-3329 (V.32bis)
Lines: 102

Subject: DSS NIST Fact Sheet, 5/20/94

(Continued from previous message)

and its vendors could be negotiated electronically. A government
procurement official could post an electronically signed message
requesting bids for office supplies.  Vendors wishing to respond to
the
request may first verify the message before they respond.  This
action
assures that the contents of the message have not been altered and
that
the request was signed by a legitimate procurement official.

After verifying the bid request, the vendor could generate and sign
an
electronic bid.  Upon receiving the bid, the procurement official
could
verify that the vendor's bid was not altered after it was signed.  If
the bid is accepted, the electronic message could be passed to a
contracting office to negotiate the final terms of the contract.  The
final contract could be digitally signed by both the contracting
office
and the vendor.  If a dispute arose at some later time, the contents
of
the contract and the associated signatures could be verified by a
third
party.

The DSA could also be useful in the distribution of software.  A
digital
signature could be applied to software after it has been validated
and
approved for distribution.  Before installing the software on a
computer, the signature could be verified to be sure no unauthorized
changes (such as the addition of a virus) have been made.  The
digital
signature could be verified periodically to ensure the integrity of
the
software.

In database applications, the integrity of information stored in the
database is often essential. The DSA could be employed in a variety
of
database applications to provide integrity.  For example, information
could be signed when it was entered into the database.  To maintain
integrity, the system could also require that all updates or
modifications to the information be signed.  Before signed
information
was viewed by a user, the signature could be verified.  If the
signature
verified correctly, the user would know the information had not been
altered by an unauthorized party.  The system could also include
signatures in the audit information to provide a record of users who
modified the information.

These examples show how the DSA can be used in a variety of
applications
to improve the integrity of both data and the application.  NIST
anticipates that federal agencies will incorporate the DSS into a
variety of automated electronic systems that require message
integrity
and non-repudiation.

                      Security Provided by the DSS

The security provided by any public key cryptographic system depends
on
several factors. Some important considerations are the mathematical
soundness of the algorithm, the management of keys, and the
implementation of the system in an application.  The safety of the
DSA
is dependent on the work needed to find or compute the discrete
logarithm of a very large number.  Mathematicians and computer
scientists have been working to find a simple solution to the problem
of
finding logarithms for a long time.  To date, only incremental
improvements in computation have been attained through the use of
more
powerful computers.  It is important to understand that an adversary,
who does not know the private parameters of a party, cannot generate
the
party's signature.  Therefore, a digital signature cannot be forged.

Digital signatures offer protection not available by alternative
signature techniques.  One such alternative is a digitized signature.
 A
digitized signature is generated by converting a visual form of a
handwritten signature to an electronic image. Although a digitized
signature resembles its handwritten counterpart, it does not provide
the
same protection as a digital signature.  Digitized signatures can be
forged.  They can also be duplicated and appended to other electronic
data.  Digitized signatures cannot be used to determine if
information
has been altered after it is signed.



(Continued to next message)
---
 * QMPro 1.51 * Dogs come when you call. Cats have answering machines.
