Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: DSS NIST Fact Sheet, 42/5
From: kari.laine@compart.fi (Kari Laine)
Path: msuinfo!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!overload.lbl.gov!lll-winken.llnl.gov!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!EU.net!sunic!news.funet.fi!news.eunet.fi!gate.compart.fi!compart!kari.laine
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <1f.12336.2417.0NC7BFEB@compart.fi>
References: <2rt7fs$4ep@search01.news.aol.com>
Date: Sat,  4 Jun 94 01:19:00 +0200
Organization: ComPart BBS - Helsinki, Finland - +358-0-506-3329 (V.32bis)
Lines: 102

Subject: DSS NIST Fact Sheet, 5/20/94

(Continued from previous message)

key.
In a system implementing public key technology, each party has its
own
public/private key pair.  The public key can be known by anyone;
however, no one should be able to modify it.  The private key is kept
secret.  Its use should be controlled by its owner and it should be
protected against modification as well as disclosure.

The DSS defines a public key cryptographic system for generating and
verifying digital signatures.  The private key is randomly generated.
Using this key and a mathematical process defined in the standard,
the
public key is generated.  The DSS is used with FIPS 180, "Secure Hash
Standard (SHS)", to generate and verify digital signatures.

To generate a signature on a message, the owner of the private key
first
applies the Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA), as defined in the SHS, to
the
message.  This action results in a condensed representation of the
message known as a message digest.  The owner of the private key then
applies the private key to the message digest using the mathematical
techniques specified in the DSA to produce a digital signature.  Any
party with access to the public key, message, and signature can
verify
the signature using the DSA.  Public keys are assumed to be known to
the
public in general.  If the signature verifies correctly, the receiver
(or any other party) has confidence that the message was signed by
the
owner of the public key and the message has not been altered after it
was signed.

In addition, the verifier can provide the message, digital signature,
and signer's public key as evidence to a third party that the message
was, in fact, signed by the claimed signer.  Given the evidence, the
third party can also verify the signature.  This capability, an
inherent
benefit of public key cryptography, is called non-repudiation.  The
DSS
does not provide confidentiality for information.  If confidentiality
is
required, the signer could first apply the DES to the message and
then
sign it using the DSA.


                   Applications of Digital Signatures

Because the DSA authenticates both the identity of the signer and the
integrity of the signed information, it can be used in a variety of
applications.  For example, the DSA could be utilized in an
electronic
mail system.  After a party generated a message, that party could
sign
it using the party's private key.  The signed message could then be
sent
to a second party. After verifying the received message, the second
party would have confidence that the message was signed by the first
party.  The second party would also know that the message was not
altered after the first party signed it.

In legal systems, it is often necessary to affix a time stamp to a
document in order to indicate the date and time at which the document
was executed or became effective.  An electronic time stamp could be
affixed to documents in electronic form and then signed using the
DSA.
Applying the DSA to the document would protect and verify the
integrity
of the document and its time stamp.

The DSA could also be employed in electronic funds transfer systems.
Suppose an electronic funds transfer message is generated to request
that $100.00 be transferred from one account to another.  If the
message
was passed over an unprotected network, it may be possible for an
adversary to alter the message and request a transfer of $1000.00.
Without additional information, it would be difficult, if not
impossible, for the receiver to know the message had been altered.
However, if the DSA was used to sign the message before it was sent,
the
receiver would know the message had been altered because it would not
verify correctly.  The transfer request could then be denied.

The DSA could be employed in a variety of business applications
requiring a replacement of handwritten signatures.  One example is
Electronic Data Interchange (EDI).  EDI is the computer-to-computer
interchange of messages representing business documents.  In the
federal
government, this technology is being used to procure goods and
services.
Digital signatures could be used to replace handwritten signatures in
these EDI transactions.  For instance, contracts between the
government

(Continued to next message)
---
 * QMPro 1.51 * Dogs come when you call. Cats have answering machines.
