Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: R._Braithwaite-Lee@magic-bbs.corp.apple.com
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Public-key crypto dead?! (Re: New Factoring Method via
Date: 4 Jun 1994 10:47:02 -0500
Organization: M A G I C
Lines: 52
Sender: nobody@cs.utexas.edu
Message-ID: <1994Jun04.164302.1165456@magic-bbs.corp.apple.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: news.cs.utexas.edu

Hurricane:

> I'm not qualified to design this, but what about an algorithm 
> based on the traveling salesman problem? I don't know the latest 
> advances in algorithms, so that may have already been ruled out by 
> advances made in the recent past. So, all y'all cryptographers out 
> there, would a traveling-salesman based pub-key algorithm be 
> workable? Has one been invented? If yes, where can I find it? If no, 
> why not?

I'm not answering your question, because I don't know if anyone has
designed a public key algorithm based on the difficulty of solving the
travelling salesman problem. But I will point out the following:

All cryptographic algorithms are based on 'hard' problems, and the
travelling salesperson is, indeed, 'hard'. But to be useful
cryptographically, there must be a mapping to an 'easy' problem. For
example, the original knapsack algorithm was based on a known 'hard'
problem. The 'key' was a secret way to transform the 'hard' problem into a
mathematically equivalent 'easy' problem, namely an iterated knapsack
problem.

So to make a cryptographic algorithm you need a hard problem, an easy
problem, and a secret way to transform the hard problem into an easy
problem.

To make a public key system, you need to go one step further and have a way
for message originators to pose hard problems that map to 'easy' problems,
without letting them know what the easy equivalent problems are.

I haven't given it a lot of thought, but I seem to recall that the knapsack
problem and the salesperson problem are equivalent, not just in difficulty,
but can be mapped easily. I therefore conjecture that if this is correct,
then any secure knapsack algorithm can be converted into a secure
salesperson problem.

If your question was posed with the idea of stimulating research into newer
and more secure algorithms, I suspect that there is nothing exploitable
about the salesperson problem that can't be exploited with existing
knapsacks (most of which have been proven insecure).

Regards,
Reginald Braithwaite-Lee !:-)
grinch@hookup.net

*** enquire about nCrypt, the strong cryptography app for Newton ***

Public Key Fingerprint: D8 B8 C1 D0 DD 56 20 B4  06 A2 81 83 87 E8 8B 64
(Send message with subject "HELP" to pgp-public-keys@pgp.ox.ac.uk)



