Path: msuinfo!agate!ames!koriel!news2me.EBay.Sun.COM!cronkite.Central.Sun.COM!sixgun.East.Sun.COM!brinkley.East.Sun.COM!walters.East.Sun.COM!klingon!eli
From: eli@klingon.East.Sun.COM (Elias Israel - SunSelect Engineering)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.security.pgp,comp.org.eff.talk
Subject: Re: who is David Sternlight?
Date: 4 Jun 1994 23:03:14 GMT
Organization: Sun
Lines: 68
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <2sr17i$r0j@walters.East.Sun.COM>
References: <2solh5$e5o@usenet.srv.cis.pitt.edu> <2sq5i9$pcs@walters.east.sun.com> <strnlghtCqvsMJ.BBA@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: klingon.east.sun.com
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:28384 alt.security:17065 alt.security.pgp:15420 comp.org.eff.talk:35013

In article <strnlghtCqvsMJ.BBA@netcom.com> david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight) writes:
>[David Sternlight responds angrily to my suggestion that his chosen
>occupation is less than honorable.]


Well, since my first arrow found the target so nicely, I think I'll
pull another from my quiver.

David, working on a cure for cancer is a fine thing, but your
suggestion that it could only be done by government is farcical. You
say that some of the work being done would never be done by private
enterprise because it isn't profitable. What you fail to mention is
that the reason it isn't profitable is the lengthy and expensive
approval process required by the FDA, which apparently prefers that
people die safely rather than live dangerously.

Your statement that the evil in government is confined to the
politicians is flatly refuted by the facts. The entire thing is rotten
to the core; the goods that it pretends to provide could be delivered
better by private means and we all know we could do without the murder
and theft in which the state specializes. Don't believe me? Think I'm
ignorant of the noble work that you do? Fine. You're entitled to your
opinion. But before you settle on it, perhaps you ought to check out
the seminal work of public choice economist James Buchanan, for which
he won the Nobel prize.  Public choice economics shows that government
agencies actually exacerbate the problems they're charged with solving
rather than ameliorating them. Thus, agencies charged with helping the
poor make more of them, those charged with helping the sick increase
disease. How many people can't get treatment because the FDA withholds
approval of new medicines? How many can't get jobs because the
regulatory burden on employers makes job creation too expensive?  It
puzzles me that the same people who understand how central planning
destroyed the Soviet Union fail to understand how it is destroying
America.

And your statement that "the people" somehow called for all of this is
traditional government cowardice. As if the will of the people meant
anything to anyone in government anymore. As if the people called up
and said "Yes! I want you to go to Waco, Texas and raid and burn alive
women and children," or, "Yes! I want you to tax me into poverty," or,
"Yes! I want you to confiscate property from people for the merest
suspicion of violating the law." Be serious. Did the people of
Massachusetts want a mandatory seatbelt law? No, they voted against it.
Did they get one anyway? You bet, because the state government couldn't
turn down those Federal highway funds.

You hold up the esteemed Senator Rostenkowski as an example of how the
law eventually catches up even with politicians. While it's nice to see
that the wheels eventually do turn, do you suppose that a truly free
society would have suffered that cur for even one year, let alone 38?
Do you imagine that gratuitous changes to the tax code served any
purpose other than to give the man favors to hand out?

You say that I need a civics lesson. On the contrary, you're the one
who needs the lesson. Your grade-school civics class notions of how
this society works don't hold up in the light of day. Anyone who's
stood in line at the department of motor vehicles knows that. Anyone
who's stood in line at a Social Security Administration office knows
that. Everyone in America except you knows that, apparently.

You call me an egotist; it's a label I wear proudly. That's what
collectivists always call people who refuse to sacrifice themselves to
the state.  Loving America is not the same thing as swearing blind
allegiance to her corrupt government. But you wouldn't know that.

Elias Israel
eli@east.sun.com
"There are some people one *wishes* to offend."
