Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.security.pgp,comp.org.eff.talk
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!mp.cs.niu.edu!tk0jut1
From: tk0jut1@mp.cs.niu.edu (jim thomas)
Subject: New Yorker Piece and "Apology" to Sternlight  
Message-ID: <1994Jun6.053744.18911@mp.cs.niu.edu>
Organization: Northern Illinois University
References: <strnlghtCqxLBG.HGD@netcom.com> <2stmik$cd2@mercury.mcs.com> <strnlghtCqyHso.IpG@netcom.com>
Distribution: inet
Date: Mon, 6 Jun 1994 05:37:44 GMT
Lines: 85
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:28417 alt.security:17091 alt.security.pgp:15478 comp.org.eff.talk:35062

 
Sternlight writes:
 
    >By the way, there's an excellent article in this week's "New
    >Yorker" (June 6) about civility on the Internet starting on P.
    >70. "My First Flame." Readers will recognize some of the
    >caracters mentioned there.
 
The article to which Sternlight refers is a vacuous piece by a
journalist who comes unglued when he receives his first flame in
private e-mail and then suspects that the flamer might have implanted
a worm/virus or worse in the ASCII text that screwed up his computer.
The piece typifies the excesses of self-indulgence when a journalist
"discovers" the nets and feels compelled to write something catchy. As
such pieces go, it's harmless.  That Sternlight sees as excellent an
article that includes as a major focus the possibility of infecting a
computer system by reading E-mail is stunning.
 
What can't go unpassed is Sternlight's implication in his post that,
given his history of disingenuousness and innuendo, his defenders
are somehow "guilty" of something.
 
The author, John Seabrook, lurked in a few Usenet groups to obtain
information about flaming. Had he asked, we could have directed him to
the Bitnet CMC (Computer Mediated Commuinication) group, where several
of the participants have been researching flames for several years.
Sadly, like most media presentations, that might have required more
effort and more time than is required to transform a sloppy, superficial
story into one more incisive and informed. Seabrook lurked in
comp.org.eff.talk, which he described as "one of the most interesting
newsgroups on the net." He apparently was unaware of Sternlight's
history as a defamatory provocateur who receives flames because he is
the master of initiating them with his abusive insults. Seabrook
notes, without providing the context, the post that suggested that
Sternlight made homosexual advances. That post was universally
condemned here, a point that Seabrook obscures. He characterizes the
responses as simply an example of a flame war. Of the post, Seabrook
says with paralogic misrepresentation:
 
    This brought forth even more furious bursts of thinking and
    feeling over the nature of the net:
 
            Dik T. Winger <dik@cwi.nl>
            I think Ralph Berkeley ((Seabrook's pseudonym for
         Sternlight)) has enough grounds for a suit on defamation of
         character. Ralph, I urge you, DO sue. I do not agree with
         you but please, DO sue.
 
            Jim Thomas <tk0jut1@mp.cs.niu.edu>
        No. Although we all assume the original post was homophobic
        sleaze, a suit is even more offensive. Such a suit itself
        constitutes "fag bashing," because it continues the
        stigmatizing of gays by suggesting that homosexuality is
        abnormal or pathological.
 
        Then, in the best spirit of the net, Dr. Berkeley posted
    this reply:
 
          Thanks to readers whose responses showed such good
    sense. Of course it's ((the allegation) false.
 
It is ironic that Seabrook sees these responses as "flames." It is
intellectually dishonest (not surprising) that Sternlight seems to
call those who defended him "characters," implying criticism.
And, had Seabrook stuck around, he would have seen that Sternlight
hardly represents the "best spirit of the net," and the following
response by Sternlight to a relatively innocuous post is more
typical of his discourse:
 
    >My major new contribution today is to kill-file an arrogant
    >little shit.
 
Yes, I recognize myself in the story--it's hard not to when identified
by name and logon id.  So, I apologize to Sternlight for rising to his
defense when he is attacked with the same venom that he attacks
others. I assure him that it shall not happen again lest he and the
media distort a principled defense and fabricate meanings to serve
baser ends.
 
(FWIW, Seabrook obtained permission, from me at least, prior to citing).
 
jt
 


