Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.security.pgp,comp.org.eff.talk
Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!news.cc.swarthmore.edu!psuvax1!news.pop.psu.edu!news.cac.psu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!swrinde!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: New Yorker Piece and "Apology" to Sternlight  
Message-ID: <strnlghtCqzM21.KtE@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <strnlghtCqxLBG.HGD@netcom.com> <2stmik$cd2@mercury.mcs.com> <strnlghtCqyHso.IpG@netcom.com> <1994Jun6.053744.18911@mp.cs.niu.edu>
Distribution: inet
Date: Mon, 6 Jun 1994 18:01:12 GMT
Lines: 89
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:28435 alt.security:17103 alt.security.pgp:15500 comp.org.eff.talk:35080

Apparently I didn't kill file Jim Thomas in this particular newsgroup.
Easily fixed. By the way I found the agreement he violated, in which he
unequivocally agreed to conduct his criticism of me via direct e-mail. No
ifs, ands, or buts. No 'but if you're mean to EFF again' etc. In my view, he
both lied to me in his e-mail and breaks agreements. So much for HIS
integrity as far as I'm concerned. Readers who think that behavior will add
to the ridiculous and disingenuous character of his messages and discredit
any assumption of integrity behind his current and future words will be in
good company.

Now to the matter at hand:


In article <1994Jun6.053744.18911@mp.cs.niu.edu>,
jim thomas <tk0jut1@mp.cs.niu.edu> wrote:

> 
>response by Sternlight to a relatively innocuous post is more
>typical of his discourse:

The post was hardly innocuous. It was a deliberate slur, and the writer held
himself out as if I owed HIM a justification for my existence. His tone was
arrogant and nasty in my view, demanding that I list and defend my
contributions to this country, suggesting that my standards of contribution
might be open to question anyway--the evidence was in my post, followed by:

> 
>    >My major new contribution today is to kill-file an arrogant
>    >little shit.

I see no reason to feel abashed at that response, and if the writer or his
defenders think the "an" applies to the writer, that seems to me a guilty
plea.


>Yes, I recognize myself in the story--it's hard not to when identified
>by name and logon id.  So, I apologize to Sternlight for rising to his
>defense when he is attacked with the same venom that he attacks
>others. I assure him that it shall not happen again lest he and the
>media distort a principled defense and fabricate meanings to serve
>baser ends.

More Thomas bullshit which shows either a deliberate attempt to distort, or
brain damage, in my opinion. He compares two deliberately offensive posts
against me (so no difference there) and then says that he regrets his
"rising to my defense" because I rose strongly to the offense in the "little
shit" case.

Let's examine that assertion.

First of all, it's false that Thomas rose to my defense. He rose to defend
gays and to engage in gay defense. (I am not gay.) The writer attempting to
slur me in that case (a faceless coward, naturally) falsely claimed gay
advances toward him, and characterized his reaction to those advances.
Thomas so-called "defense" of me was a message saying, in effect, "what's
wrong with being gay"? Then he compounded his "defense" of me by advising me
not to sue because that would be "fag bashing". On the evidence of this
paragraph and his own statements, I think Thomas assertion that he was
defending me is a load of crap. Thus his pious protestation that he won't
defend me any more seems to me to be pure hypocrisy.

What he did is defended against using being gay as a "charge" by denying
that homosexuality was abnormal or pathological. What Thomas posted was, in
fact, classical gay propaganda having nothing to do with me. Note that I
don't enter into the merits of being, or not being gay, so no red herring
responses to this message. Some think being gay is not abnormal Some rely on
the Bible that it is an "abomination" deserving of death. I take no position
on the matter in this message.

Then he says he regrets "defending me" because I responded to an attack with
direct language. So he compounds what I think to be a lie with a piece of
what seems to me to be pathological logic--by claiming his defense of gays
was a defense of me, and then arguing that because I used direct language in
fending off an attack, somehow he regretted "defending me". Judging from
Thomas' past posts, he's the last person I'd expect to be handing out "turn
the other cheek" advice. If he is, I suggest hypocrisy of mind-boggling
magnitude, given his attacks on others.

I'll stop here, because though I can see his behavior pattern in the above,
and it is consistent with much of his past behavior, I am not professionally
qualified to draw any psychiatric conclusions about it.

He can say anything he likes in response I won't see it, and won't reply,
because I'm now adding this newsgroup to the others in which I have him
kill-filed for cause. I won't respond to his e-mail either, given what I've
experienced as his sorry record with respect to the integrity of his
previous e-mail to me.

David
