Path: msuinfo!agate!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!swrinde!pipex!lyra.csx.cam.ac.uk!news
From: Mark.Lomas@cl.cam.ac.uk
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Matt Blaze's Clipper attack -- details
Date: 7 Jun 1994 14:32:54 GMT
Organization: University of Cambridge Computer Laboratory
Lines: 41
Message-ID: <2t20em$mi9@lyra.csx.cam.ac.uk>
NNTP-Posting-Host: nene.cl.cam.ac.uk

According to a number of reports Matt Blaze has determined experimentally
that his Clipper-based device will accept one in 2^16 LEAF values fed to
it.  People have therefore concluded that there are 16 bits of redundancy
within the encrypted LEAF - I don't know whether Matt claimed this since
I have not yet had the opportunity to read his paper.

Imagine that there were not 16 but 17 bits of redundancy within the LEAF.
Devices shipped to the general public appear to check only 16 of these
bits.  Is there any reason why this might be useful?

Now imagine that there is a monitoring device elsewhere in the
telephone network looking at all LEAF fields, checking the additional
bit.  If two people communicate using Clipper in an approved manner
then the additional bit will merely confirm the 16 bits that have
already been checked by their own devices.  If however somebody has
found an acceptable but incorrect LEAF by searching then there is a
50/50 chance that the additional check bit will indicate this.

If I were designing such a system then I might be inclined to reserve,
say, two additional bits to bias the odds in favour of spotting such
unusual LEAFs.  Such a LEAF might set off an alarm telling the monitoring
authority that a particular conversation might be more interesting than
others.

My point is that without detailed knowledge of the structure of an
encrypted packet it may be inadvisable to conclude that you know its
structure just because one particular device chooses to act upon it
in a particular way.

In case somebody wishes to suggest that there isn't room for an extra
two bits within the LEAF, imagine that unit i.d.s are two bits shorter
than people think and the equipment that decodes a LEAF masks out two
bits of the decoded LEAF before presenting it to the escrow authorities
for verification.  This would mean that the escrow authorities could
be told a unit-i.d. length that differed from reality but without becoming
suspicious.

Of course this is all hypothetical.  The redundancy could well be only
16 bits.  There is no (easy) way to tell.

	Mark
