Path: msuinfo!agate!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!swrinde!pipex!uknet!EU.net!uunet!newstf01.cr1.aol.com!search01.news.aol.com!not-for-mail
From: rperillo@aol.com (RPerillo)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Cryptography conference
Date: 8 Jun 1994 10:30:04 -0400
Organization: America Online, Inc. (1-800-827-6364)
Lines: 66
Sender: news@search01.news.aol.com
Message-ID: <2t4klc$l6m@search01.news.aol.com>
References: <2sufsi$2m4@blaze.cs.jhu.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: search01.news.aol.com

In article <2sufsi$2m4@blaze.cs.jhu.edu>, meyer@whatever.cs.jhu.edu
(Daniel Meyer) writes:

>	Does anyone know anything about a conference on cryptography
and
>privacy occuring on June 7 in Washington DC?
>
>Dan

1-

On Monday, June 6th the old CPSR, now caled EPIC had  their annual
Cryptography conference in Washington, DC. About 80 people showed up
including Whitfield Diffie.

One Hitch, it was by invitation only!!!!

Now i am not writing this because i am upset that i was not invited,
i probably couldnt have made it, bu i am getting sick about this
"insider or important people" mentality around here. Obviously if you
dont work for the White House, or write for the New York Times, your
questions are not going to get answered, your'e not going to get
postings, and not get invited to meetings. I think this wrong. Marc
Rotenberg and EPIC have stated that they don't work that way (that
they are available to their members and the public), but i have found
that they are almost as "insider" centered as the current
administration, as evidenced by this closed conference.

I am trying to help or assist organize, some sort of one day event,
on cryptography and privacy, in the Washington area that would be
open to all (cypher/crypto punks, amateur cryptographers, developers,
academics, Govt. and NSA, and yes even the Advocacy people). It would
discuss cryptographic issues, technical issues, and legal and policy
issues.

2 -

The Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association (AFCEA)
is having its annual Convention and Exposition in the Washington,
D.C. Convention center.
Its called "the Information Technology Puzzle' 94, the Tech Net
Solution". While there are no panels on Information Security, there
are over 100 INFOSEC displays and demos.
The hours are : Tuesday June 7, 10:30 am - 7:00 pm
                       Wednessday June 8th, 09:00 am - 4:30 pm
                        Thursday June 9th,     09:00 am - 3:30 pm.
Admission is free.

Many of the companys who produce cryptographic equipment have booths
there with information, such as Allied Signal Bendix (KIV-7, KG-84),
and E-Systems (KG-84, and the Multi COMSEC Unit (KO-2), ATT will be
there showing its ATT Surity Telephone Device 3600, a version of
which uses "Clipper".

Scientists like Whitfield Diffie, are usually at these shows to
collect information to get
an idea or some possible insight into the technical details of how
government communications security systems work.

NSA has a whole block long booth, pushing Information Security, and
its Tessera card, which uses the "Clipper" related Capstone chip.

Come on, all you Crypto/Cypher Punks, lets get out there, go through
the booths and get information for our files!

- Robert
