Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!sunic!EU.net!uunet!newsflash.concordia.ca!sifon!mcrcim.mcgill.edu!collatz.mcrcim.mcgill.edu!mouse
From: mouse@collatz.mcrcim.mcgill.edu (der Mouse)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.security
Subject: md5 as a one-way function
Followup-To: sci.crypt
Date: 9 Jun 1994 15:33:56 GMT
Organization: McGill Research Centre for Intelligent Machines
Lines: 36
Message-ID: <Mouse.Wed_Jun__9_10_14_51_1994@collatz.mcrcim.mcgill.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu

(Note cross-post and followup-to.  This is mostly a crypto question,
but the application is security, hence comp.security.)

I have a question about md5, and I am not good enough to answer it...so
I ask the net.

I was considering building a password hash function around md5.
Specifically, I would generate a salt (nine bytes of data taken largely
from the clock), compute its md5 checksum, convert it to a 20-character
printable string by expressing it in base 94, then take the provided
plaintext password, concatenate it with the aforementioned 20-character
string, compute the md5 checksum of the result, express that as another
20-character string, and then store the resulting 40 characters as the
password hash.  (In the environment I am considering using this in, I
am not constrained by the usual UNIXish limitations of a two-character
salt and a 13-character hash.)

Now, md5 is (last I heard) believed to be cryptographically strong as a
checksum function, in that finding two data streams whose md5 checksum
is the same, or finding a second data stream that checksums to the same
thing as a given data stream, is approximately as hard as exhaustive
search.

But this is not enough to make me confident that the hashing scheme I
describe above is secure.  If md5 is strong in the sense that finding
(de novo) a data stream with a given md5 checksum is approximately as
hard as exhaustive search, then it is secure - but that's not quite the
same as either of the statements in the previous paragraph.

Any comments?  I'll try to follow sci.crypt for a while, but I would
be grateful if anyone responding would be kind enough to mail me the
response.

					der Mouse

			    mouse@collatz.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
