Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!hobbes.physics.uiowa.edu!news.uiowa.edu!uunet!newstf01.cr1.aol.com!search01.news.aol.com!not-for-mail
From: teknomancr@aol.com (Teknomancr)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Blaze's Tessera Attack (not necessarily Clipper)
Date: 9 Jun 1994 15:29:02 -0400
Organization: America Online, Inc. (1-800-827-6364)
Lines: 62
Sender: news@search01.news.aol.com
Message-ID: <2t7qhu$eii@search01.news.aol.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: search01.news.aol.com

U.S. NEARS STANDARD ON CODING MESSAGES  6/8/94

By JOSHUA QUITTNER
Newsday

The federal government is close to adopting a voluntary standard for
encoding electronic mail and other computer data that a computer
scientist has shown to have an ironic flaw.

The standard would allow computers to communicate with each other
through a credit-card-sized storage device known as a Tessera Card,
which contains a special encryption program. Once installed into a
computer, the card allows the computer operator to encrypt e-mail and
other communication, but also provides police with a ''back door''
that allows them, when warranted, to unscramble and read the
encrypted material.

The problem, one expert has found, is that Tessera can be subverted
and turned into a device that closes the back door and creates a
virtually unbreakable code. When Matthew Blaze, a researcher at
AT&T's Bell Laboratories, was asked by the National Security Agency
to review the card, he discovered a way to lock encrypted
communications with a key that could not be used by an outsider to
open the ''back door.''

The card is part of a controversial government plan to preserve, and
expand, the ability of law-enforcement agencies to eavesdrop on
suspected criminals and terrorists in the digital age.

The first phase of that plan was the adoption of the so-called
Clipper Chip, which is an encryption device used only on telephone
networks. The Clipper was approved earlier this year as a
''voluntary'' standard for use by federal agencies with the hope that
the business world would soon adopt it as well -- making it part of
everyone's telephone and fax machine.

Phase 2 would then be adoption of a standard for computer
communications, the Tessera Card.

Though Clipper and Tessera both rely on the same secret mathematical
formula, or algorithm, to encode communications, the flaw that Blaze
found does not exist in the Clipper, he and other experts agree.
Nonetheless, civil libertarians -- who have staunchly opposed the
Clipper on privacy grounds -- say Tessera's loophole is further
evidence that the Clipper Chip itself should be sunk because it was
was designed in secret and potentially has its own vulnerabilities.

''This casts a great deal of doubt, not only on the feasibility of
this scheme, but on the (government's) claim to be able to develop a
foolproof product without exposing it to public criticism and market
competition,'' said Mike Godwin, counsel to the Electronic Frontier
Foundation, a Washington, D.C.-based civil liberties group that has
been leading the fight against the Clipper.

The government has responded that Clipper's design is sound and was
reviewed by five civilian experts. The hole in Tessera, they say, was
an obvious one that they had already identified and may not even be
worth patching since it is impractical to exploit under real-world
conditions. It takes too long to hack the card and anyone wanting to
use uncrackable encryption already can find a variety of free or
commercial software that does not have any back doors.
(continued due to AOL inadequacies)
