Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!nigel.msen.com!zib-berlin.de!math.fu-berlin.de!jiri
From: jiri@kirk.chemie.fu-berlin.de (Jiri Pittner)
Subject: homebanking security question
Message-ID: <7VLPBNGI@math.fu-berlin.de>
Summary: how secure are 'homebanking' services?
Keywords: homebanking, cryptography in finantial applications
Sender: news@math.fu-berlin.de (Math Department)
Nntp-Posting-Host: kirk.chemie.fu-berlin.de
Organization: Free University of Berlin, Germany
Date: Sat, 11 Jun 1994 13:53:23 GMT
Lines: 36



I have a question about security of 'homebanking' services, which are
now offered by many banks:

It seems that the communication between bank and small clients
(average physical persons) is (in Germany) done over phone without any encryption.
The bank gives to the customer special PIN for homebanking information
and the customer communicates to the bank from his PC via modem and phone,
using (in Germany) "BTX" service of Telecom (publicly avaiable information
and services database). The bank does not give to the customer any software,
which would encrypt the communication data. How BTX and banks communicate
I do not know. But up to my knowledge, BTX software for PC does not have inside
any cryptographical functions. Therefore the PIN is sent unencrypted over the
phone!
This situation resembles the problem of remote logins over internet, when
passwords are also transmitted in plaintext.
I think that it is very dangerous!

Do you know if there are banks which give to the clients who want to participate
in 'homebanking' software which encrypts the data transmitted over phone etc.?
I think it is very simple to develop some software to do that. Methods
like DES or IDEA could be used at the customer side to decrypt the transaction data
using password given to him by the bank.
Or public key cryptography could be used; customer's PIN and transaction data
would be encrypted by public key of the bank and then transmitted.

Are there already cases of misused homebanking services?

Thanks in advance for responses.

Jiri 
--
Jiri Pittner

jiri@kirk.chemie.fu-berlin.de
