Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!sunic!EU.net!uunet!ftpbox!mothost!mdisea!mmddvan!vanbc.wimsey.com!nemesis.wimsey.com!Stu
From: Stu@nemesis.wimsey.com (Stuart Smith)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Clipper flawed: New Y
Message-ID: <771723947Stu.stu@nemesis.wimsey.com>
Sender: stu@nemesis.wimsey.com
Date: Wed, 15 Jun 94 15:45:47 pst
References: <1994Jun14.225659.3884@rose.com>
Followup-To: alt.privacy.clipper
Organization: The Puzzle Palace
X-Newsreader: TRN for OS/2
Lines: 53

In article <1994Jun14.225659.3884@rose.com> robert.heuman@rose.com (robert heuman) writes:
>One of the other problems will be that it will close the door to US 
>MicroComputers in Canada and other neighboring countries, since no 
>Canadian in his or her right mind will purchase a computer that 
>permits the US government to intercept and read his or her computer 
>communications, nor can I see the Canadian Government or any of the 
>Provinces permitting the sale of such computers in Canada, or 
>purchasing any themselves.

Just off hand, I would say that the Canadian Government tends to
follow the U.S.'s lead in just about everything sadly. (although
I did hear that the US is considering fortifying its bread with
folic acid while Canadian health officials want education for
people to eat better - entirely offtopic but bravo!)

I have before me a rather cryptic newspaper article in the
Vancouver Sun on Monday June 13.  I don't know what a
non-crypto-buff would think of it - it appears to be describing
the Canadian Government's approval of the clipper chip and/or
the digital telephony bill, or perhaps the introduction of
Canadian equivalents.

The article *seems* to be implying that Canadian law enforcement
have been having a hell of a time with all these high-tech
criminals using computer and fax machines.  While the law or
proposal is never discussed in detail the article says it would,
"...greatly expand the electronic surveillance powers of
police...", "...would make it easier for police to intercept
digital or computer communications...", "...similar to the law
the U.S. is putting in place...".  About the US law, it says
that it "... will allow police to monitora wide range of
personal data such as credit card usage, telephone calling
patterns, automated teller transactions and even proposed
interactive cable television systems.  And much of that
material could be accumulated without the police targeting
specific telephone conversations or electronic mail message
between computers."  This seems to imply that all our future
electronic communications will be routed through Ottawa <g>

I wonder how many of the rioters and looters in Vancouver last
night made plans over the telephone?  Perhaps it will be used as
further justification ... :(

The World Trade Centre bombing and the $5 billion dollar damage
figure are brandied about as well.

Followups to alt.privacy.clipper.

--
 Baba baby mama shaggy papa baba bro baba rock a shaggy baba sister
shag saggy hey doc baba baby shaggy hey baba can you dig it baba baba
        E7 E3 90 7E 16 2E F3 45   *   28 24 2E C6 03 02 37 5C 
   Stuart Smith                           <stu@nemesis.wimsey.com>
