Path: msuinfo!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!eff!news.kei.com!ddsw1!not-for-mail
From: cryptech@MCS.COM (Mike Rosing)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Comments on PGP 2.6 (ranting/ignore :)
Date: 16 Jun 1994 20:38:12 -0500
Organization: Another MCSNet Subscriber, Chicago's First Public-Access Internet!
Lines: 30
Message-ID: <2tquq4$pjq@Mercury.mcs.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: mercury.mcs.com

I finally got into net-dist.mit.edu and read the PGP README file.
I'm sorry guys, but I don't feel like playing your silly games.  The
people I need to talk to have 2.3 and the people who only have 2.6 can
hack their program to read my code.  I just noticed that the export
restrictions held (13-0 vote) so it's clear that the US government
really doesn't care about people trying to make a living.

I guess I feel like its time to start thinking like a criminal.  Everything
I like doing is being defined as a criminal act, so I might as well admit
that I *am* a criminal and just ignore all the damn rules.  I don't want
the government (any government) reading my mail so I'm just gonna have
to use encryption technology that's illegal.

I understand MIT's problem, but I don't have to deal with it either.
As a criminal, I don't need to be stupid and I don't need to worry
about jumping thru all kinds of silly hoops to keep some idiot bureaucrat
happy (yeah I know, logging in 3 times isn't that big a deal, but I've
really *had* it with stupidity today!!!)

A government only works because it has consent of the governed.  Once
enough people become criminals (drug users, gun owners, tobacco smokers,
cryptographers, etc.) "government" ceases to have much meaning.  I'm using
every method of strong crypto available, and I'll make it available thru
black channels if necessary to ensure widespread use.  I'm sure that I'll
be much too small for any particular 3 letter agency to pay attention to
and my efforts will be pretty insignificant, but I've had it and I ain't
gonna take no more!

Patience, persistence, truth,
Dr. mike
