Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.lsi
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!yeshua.marcam.com!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!olivea!sgigate.sgi.com!sgi!wdl1!io!koontzd
From: koontzd@io.lrmsc.loral.com (David Koontz )
Subject: Re: References for tamper-resistant VLSI?
Message-ID: <1994Jun17.193408.24141@wdl.loral.com>
Sender: news@wdl.loral.com
Organization: Loral Rolm Computer Systems
References: <MONTA.94Jun17112344@pixel.mit.edu>
Date: Fri, 17 Jun 1994 19:34:08 GMT
Lines: 55
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:28806 comp.lsi:4066

>From: monta@pixel.mit.edu (Peter Monta)
>
>I'm curious about tamper-resistance and reverse-engineering resistance
>in VLSI, and I'd be grateful for any pointers or references.  Are
>the technologies for, e.g., the manufacture of Clipper chips secret
>or public?  On what physical principles is such resistance based?

David Arneke, AT&T Media Relations/Marketing Communications has
released details of the Clipper chip that include:

The CLIPPER CHIP is just one implementation of the CA. The
CLIPPER CHIP designed for the AT&T commercial secure voice
products has the following characteristics:

     1.    Functions specified by NSA; logic designed by
           MYKOTRONX; chip fabricated by VLSI, INC.: manufactured
           chip programmed (made unique) by MYKOTRONX ...

     2.    Resistant to reverse engineering against a very
           sophisticated, well funded adversary;

     4.    The chip programming equipment writes (one time) the
           following information into a special memory (called
           VROM or VIA-Link) on the chip:

           a.    (unique) serial number
           b.    (unique) unit key
           c.    family key
           d.    specialized control software
-

The Mykotronx Inc., document 'MYK-78E VLSI Encryption/Decryption
Processor', Rev 21 September 1993 (one of 3 Clipper chips), refers
to VROM, and contains a package pin diagram from VLSI Technology.

In the January 1993 issue of the magazine Computer Design, there was
an article on VLSI Technology Inc.'s new ViaLink antifuse technology.

It claims that security comes first, and Vialinks provide visual and
electrical security.  A Vialink antifuse is an amorphous silicon blob
occupying a via between two layers of metalization. The top layer of
metalization provides a current source, and hides which Vialinks are
conductive.  Using via links for programmable information in ASICs
is referred to as VROM (ViaLink Read Only Memory).

One former employee of Intel (the foundry used by VLSI) relates that 
Intel has developed techniques for reverse engineering Vialinks.  There
has purportedly been intervention from the National Security Agency to
classify the techniques.  Numbers as low as 4 years have been bandied 
about by government figures as the half life of Clipper chips in the 
face of reverse engineering.

VLSI Technology	(408) 434-7905  (literature on VROM)


