Path: msuinfo!agate!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!usc!nic-nac.CSU.net!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!yeshua.marcam.com!MathWorks.Com!panix!cmcl2!newsserv.cs.sunysb.edu!ysics.physics.sunysb.edu!pjhong
From: pjhong@cs.sunysb.edu (P. Joseph Hong)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: **** A challenge for you. ****
Date: 20 Jun 1994 03:16:10 GMT
Organization: Institute For Theoretical Physics
Lines: 63
Message-ID: <2u31lq$kau@ysics.physics.sunysb.edu>
References: <sehari.771985064@bart.ecss.iastate.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: clio.rad.sunysb.edu
X-Newsreader: Tin 1.1 PL3

sehari@iastate.edu (Babak Sehari) writes:
: 
: ----
: 
: I have designed a crypting program, that I think is unbreakable.  I challenge
: anyone who is interested to get in touch with me, and decrypt an encrypted
: massage.
: 
:                    With highest regards,
:                         Babak   Sehari.
: 
: -- 


	Let me ask you a few questions instead.  Let's suppose that two or
three 'amateur' cryptanalysts from sci.crypt respond to your "challenge" and
none are able to decrypt the message successfully.  What do you plan to do next?
That is, what do you plan to do with your "crypting program" ?

	Your next course of action will fall into one of two categories:
(1) disclose the algorithm for further study/attack/analysis, or
(2) keep the algorithm secret and sell a product using this program,
preferably for lots of money.

	If you do (1), we amateurs can dissect your actual algorithm and
implementation, and try to discover any weaknesses.  If such analysis/attacks
shows that your algorithm is insecure, then it's back to square one for you.
	Note that if you patent your algorithm, you must, by law, disclose
the algorithm itself.

	With (2), selling your "crypting program" to hundreds/thousands
of users will have the same effect as (1), as hackers around the world will
analyze your program with their debuggers and deduce the algorithm anyway.
No secrecy for your algorithm available in this course.
	If you try to implement the "crypting program" in hardware instead,
and develop your own "crypting chip", then you'll probably want to sell
the chips or the modules.  Again, if you sell to the general public, it
won't be long before someone cracks the chip/module and gets the actual
algorithms.
	So let's suppose you try to sell the devices only to a select
few persons/companies/institutions, in an effort to limit the number of
people with access to the cipher machines.  If the machines are really
that important, then don't you think the "opposition" will try all means
to obtain one of those cipher devices?  And when that happens, will your
device hold up to attack?
	OK, so you say you've taken all safeguards and you have a tamper-
proof cipher chip uncrackable by today's and up to 20 years of tomorrow's
technology.  If the opposition holds one or two of the cipher devices, strong
cryptanalytic attacks can be made on them (s.v. CHOSEN-PLAINTEXT ATTACK).

	SO, the real question is:
		HOW WELL CAN YOUR ALGORITHM STAND UP TO
		A CHOSEN PLAINTEXT ATTACK?

	The parameters of your challenge are too restrictive to provide
a true test of your algorithm's cryptographic security.  The only test
accepted by the professionals is that the algorithm be cryptanalyzed and
several attacks performed through several years of effort.

	Besides, who wants an ENCRYPTED MASSAGE anyway? :-)


	Joseph, who is certainly only an amateur cryptanalyst.
