Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!xlink.net!fauern!rrze.uni-erlangen.de!not-for-mail
From: unrza3@cd4680fs.rrze.uni-erlangen.de (Markus Kuhn)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Videocrypt card emulator software available
Date: Wed, 22 Jun 1994 14:34:40 +0200
Organization: Regionales Rechenzentrum Erlangen, Germany
Message-ID: <2u9b50Eavu@uni-erlangen.de>
Reply-To: mskuhn@cip.informatik.uni-erlangen.de
NNTP-Posting-Host: cd4680fs.rrze.uni-erlangen.de
Lines: 37

Hello!

Videocrypt is a popular pay-TV access control system used by many
satellite services, e.g. in Europe and New Zealand. I've done
some reverse engineering on the system recently. My results and the
MS-DOS Videocrypt smart card emulator software I've written are available on
ftp.uni-erlangen.de:pub/Multimedia/VideoCrypt/season13.zip. This
software contains even the secure hash algorithm and the secret key
that was used in the last card generation (07). It is very likely, that
in the current card generation, the algorithm is still the same and only
the key hash changed.

If you are seeking for a nice opportunity to test your cryptoanalytic
skills, then feel free to have a look at this nice algorithm. It is some
kind of product chiffre with a 32-byte secret s-box (the key) which
is used in 99 iterations. The card implements a hash function which
transforms 32-byte messages from the station into 8-byte hash results
which are used as a PRNG seed for descrambling the image. Choosen
text attacks are not easily impossible, because the 32-byte messages
contain a 4-byte signature. So it isn't easy to apply standard techniques
like the Biham/Shamir differential attack. The fact that the signature
is an intermediate state of the hash algorithm is perhaps the weakest
point of the whole system. Although it seems to be a very simple
crypto algorithm, I've been pretty surprised so far how strong it is.

For a real world challange of your cryptoanalytic skills, why not
trying to find the new secret key of the current smart card generation
(09)? What you can win? In Europe, free access to nearly 20 TV channels. ;-)

Are there any real cryptoanalysists here?

Markus

-- 
Markus Kuhn, Computer Science student -- University of Erlangen,
Internet Mail: <mskuhn@cip.informatik.uni-erlangen.de> - Germany
WWW Home: <http://wwwcip.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/user/mskuhn>
