Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!hibbert
From: hibbert@netcom.com (Chris Hibbert)
Subject: Re: Following You About
Message-ID: <hibbertCrx7rB.54@netcom.com>
Cc: kliegel, hibbert
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 261-4700 guest)
References: <2ud0i5$13h@engnews2.eng.sun.com>
Date: Fri, 24 Jun 1994 21:30:47 GMT
Lines: 36

In article <2ud0i5$13h@engnews2.eng.sun.com>, James M Kliegel wrote:
>A friend of mine is working on a project to install "barcode" readers
>on the toll bridges in the SF Bay area. The idea is that you drive through
>the toll plaza at the speed of traffic, and your credit card is charged
>for your months tolls.

I testified for CPSR in Sacramento when CalTrans (the California
Department of Transportation) was considering a (radio transponder
based) standard for the state that would have broadcast identifying
info.  They subsequently changed the spec so it wasn't explicitly
privacy invasive.  Their results are now a state standard, I think.
Does your friend know about this standard?  Why is she considering an
incompatible system?

I'd be glad to talk to your friend about alternative schemes that
respect privacy.  The most important thing is allowing people to
prepay into a cash (and therefore anonymous) account that is debited
as you use the bridges.  This is also cheaper to administer.

>The obvious implementation is open to "traffic" analysis. Could
>anyone point me to a digital money type protocol that would preserve
>the anonymity of the commuters?

While I have nothing against crypto-cash, it's completely unnecessary
for a toll-charging system.  Judging from my experience with CalTrans,
digital money is completely outside of the experience of people who do
roads.  If you are intereted in convincing your friend about crypto-money, you
might try contacting David Chaum of Digicash, Inc.  (info@digicash.nl)
Chaum is reputed to have a working crypto-based toll charging system
which he was ready to install in Europe, though I'm not sure if anyone
ever bought it.

Chris 
-- 
Chris Hibbert                 protecting privacy in the computer age is 
hibbert@netcom.com            like trying to change a tire on a moving car.
