Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!nntp.cs.ubc.ca!torn!uunet.ca!uunet.ca!ionews.io.org!nobody
From: trebla@io.org (Albert YC Lai)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: *** challange part 1 ***
Date: 25 Jun 1994 18:19:17 -0400
Organization: Internex Online (io.org) Data: 416-363-4151  Voice: 416-363-8676
Lines: 208
Message-ID: <2uiah5$3vl@ionews.io.org>
References: <sehari.772342349@eng3.iastate.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: io.org

In article <sehari.772342349@eng3.iastate.edu>,
Babak Sehari <sehari@iastate.edu> wrote:
>As I promissed, I am posting my first part of challange for decrypters.
>You should look for a article that is posted to this group with in last 2
>weeks, so if you are using nn you should be seeing the original article, but
>the question is which one.  You should look for English words, as well as do
>your spectrum analysis to find out what type of file was it.

English words yes, but I don't think that it is an article in sci.crypt.
Obviously you are giving out partially false information to distract our
efforts. :)

Here is the plaintext I've obtained.  I wrote up a back-propagation neural
network simulation program, ran it on a network of five CRAYs upon your   
ciphertext, and they told me this has the highest probability of being the
plaintext.

Now, I know what you want to say.  You will deny that I've got the answer.
If so, what prove do you have?  If you cannot give acceptable proof that
the following is not the answer, then the net will consider the problem
solved, and your crypting engine cracked.  One acceptable proof, if you
need to give one, is to show us your algorithm.

Note that I've already told you my method.  I used backprop neural
network.  There is nothing more I can do to show mine.

Now, where is my prize? :)


---- Plaintext begins
A System which is up will eventually come down.
A B C: Israel's secret weapon, Ain Brayra Klal ("no choice at all").
"Ability" implies repeatability and accountability.
Abstract knowledge is always useful, sooner or later.
Accountability (n): The mother of caution.
Adage (n): Boned wisdom for weak teeth.
Admonition (n): Gentle reproof, as with a meat-axe. Friendly warning.
Adversity causes some men to break; it causes others to break records.
Advice (n): The smallest current coin.
Alien (n): An American citizen in his probationary state.
Alimony: bounty on the mutiny.
All colors will agree in the dark.
All God's children got algorithm.
All men are created unequal. -- Lazarus
Allen's Axiom: When all else fails, read the instructions.
Alone (adj): In bad company.
ANARCHISM: You have two cows. Keep them. Shoot the government.
And something else, but what I dare not name.
Antenna Coupling: insect foreplay.
Antipathy (n): The sentiment inspired by one's friend's friend.
Any mathematical trick used at least twice becomes a method.
Any process sets up forces opposing it. The system always kicks back.
Appeal (v.t.): In law, to put the dice into the box for another throw.
Are you a turtle?
Are you working hard -- or hardly working?
As Canadian as.... possible under the circumstances.
As pure as the driven slush...
Authority: someone who can tell you more than you really care to know.
Avoid quiet and passive persons unless you are in need of sleep.
The attacker must vanquish; the defender need only survive.
Automatic Gain Control: wage and price regulations.
Balanced Modulator: mezzo-soprano on a tightrope.
Banana Plug: fruit marketing board advertisement.
Base Drive: primitive motivation.
Battery Charger: assault case prosecutor.
Baud Rate: libertine fee schedule.
Be careful of your involvement in things that can't bear inspection.
Be sure your conversation generates more light than heat.
Being weird is the best defense.
Belladonna (n): (Italian) a beautiful lady; (English) a deadly poison.
The best effect of the energy crisis is: renewed use of elbow grease.
The best prophet of the future -- is the past.
Beware of friends who are false and deceitful.
Beware the wrath of a patient man.  -- Dryden
Big, fat, hairy deal.        -- Garfield
Binary Loader: double Scotch.
Bonding Wire: cheap wedding ring.
Broadsword: used by an Amazon.
Brute force is the last refuge of the incompetent.
Burn-In: pyromaniac convention.
A book, shut tight, is but a block of paper.
Bower's Law: Talent goes to where the action is.
By failing to prepare, you are preparing to fail.
A brute kills for pleasure. A fool kills from hate. -- Lazarus
CAPITALISM: You have two cows. Sell one. Buy a bull.
Cats sleep fat and walk thin.
Change your thoughts and you change the world -- Norman Vincent Peale
Cheerfulness is the best promoter of health.
CMOS: underwater vegetation.
Cogito ergo cogito sum. (I think, therefore I think I am.)
Colorless green ideas sleep furiously.
Common Collector: ordinary garbage man.
Common sense is not so common.
COMMUNISM: You have two cows. Give them to the government. They give you milk.
Computers are first installed just to do manual tasks more expensively.
CONSERVATISM: You have two cows. Freeze the milk. Embalm the cows.
Core Dump: orchard compost heap.
Courage is your greatest present need.
Court Fool (n): The plaintiff.
Creditors have much better memories than debtors.
Crimp Termination: death by strangulation.
Curiosity killed the cat; SATISFACTION BROUGHT IT BACK.
Current Mode Logic: contemporary fad in philosophy.
Dale: "I'd better leave before I have a clean thought!"
Data Extractor: census taker.
Decade Counter: the grim reaper.
Dedicated Computer: loyal accountant.
Defame (v.t.): To lie about another. To tell the truth about another.
De gustibus non disputandum est.
Delay Line: debtor's story.
Delayed Trigger: loser in gunfight.
Dentist: putting metal in your mouth,  pulls coins out of your pocket.
Deprive a mirror of its silver, and even the Czar won't see his face.
Diplomacy is saying "nice doggie" until you can find a big rock.
Discrete Device: little white lie.
Disk Crash: UFO accident.
Disk Drive: slap shot.
Don't be overly suspicious where it's not warranted.
"DON'T PANIC!" -- back cover of Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.
Do not handicap your children by making their lives easy. -- Lazarus
Don't speak about Time, until you have spoken with him.
Don't stop at one bug.   -- Elements of Programming Style.
Don't tinker with any bells today.
Dynamic Ram: a lothario of the pasture.
Economy makes men independent.
An elephant: A mouse built to government specifications. -- Lazarus
The Eleventh Commandment: DON'T GET CAUGHT.
Entropy: Left to themselves, things go from bad to worse.
Ethic #1 (of 2): You mustn't annoy other people.
Ethic #2 (of 2): You mustn't allow yourself to be annoyed too easily.
Even a hawk is an eagle among crows.
Even the boldest zebra fears the hungry lion.
Even the smallest candle burns brighter in the dark.
Every purchase has its price.
Every solution includes at least two more problems.
Everybody lies about sex. -- Lazarus
Everybody ought to have a friend.
Everybody ought to have a maid.
Everything is sweetened by risk. -- Alexander Smith
Exclusive OR: mistress.
Executive ability is prominent in your make-up.
Executive ability is prominent in your make-up. What brand do you use?
Expect a letter from a friend who will ask a favor of you.
Experience is the name everyone gives to his mistakes.
BONUS QUESTION: Define the universe. Give three examples.
Fall not in love therefore; it will stick to your face.
Fame and rest are utter opposites.   -- Richard Steele
Far duller than a serpent's tooth it is to spend a quiet youth.
FASCISM: You have two cows. Give milk to the government. They sell it.
Fashion (n): A despot whom the wise ridicule and obey.
Feed your local Hobbit.
Flip-flop: unpopular reverse side of hit record.
Floppy Disk: tired UFO.
Fortune is ever seen accompanying industry.   -- Oliver Goldsmith
Four Terminal Network: small railway company.
iumop-ap!sdn s! leu!wJa+ Jnoh 'ma!A jo +uo!d hw woJj
Full Duplex: overcrowded tenement.
A good memory does not equal pale ink.
Good news from afar can bring you a welcome visitor.
Got a good idea for a new motto? Send it to dkwan@zeus.UWaterloo.ca!
Happiness is a way station between too little and too much.
Happy Hacking!
Happy tomorrow -- today's already shot.   -- W. C. Fields
Have faith in what you are doing.
Heat Shrink: tropical psychiatrist.
He is truly wise who gains wisdom from another's mishap.
He who has a shady past, knows that nice guys finish last.
He who has imagination without learning has wings but no feet.
He who says he who says he who says he who says he who.
He who spends storm beneath tree, Takes life with grain of TNT.
Hex Code: witchcraft standards.
Hex Inverter: device for witch countermeasures.
A house divided makes many apartments.
How sharper than a hound's tooth it is to have a thankless serpent.
How you look depends on where you go.
The human spirit is stronger than anything that can happen to it.
I am the Cat that walks by himself, and all places are alike to me.
I collided with a stationary truck coming the other way.
An idea is a feat of association.   -- Robert Frost
I feel absolutely lost without my Sonic Screwdriver.
I GROK SPOCK.
I never make misteaks.
IBM: I've Been Moved.
IBM: (UNPRINTABLE -- ask a friend at Burlington)
IBM: International Brotherhood of Magicians.
IBM: The Itty Bitty Machine Company.
IBM door locks: Badge Processing
If you can read this, you're too close to the weekend. Take a vacation
If you don't like yourself, you CAN'T like other people. -- Lazarus
If you suspect a man, don't employ him.
If you MUST swim alone, leave word with someone.
If you're bashful, you'll have no children. -- Yiddish proverb
ILLIGITIMI NON CARBORUNDUM (don't let the bastards wear you down).
In my attempt to kill a fly, I drove into a telephone pole.
Indirect Addressing: post office box.
Inhibitions are tied up in nots.
Integrated Circuit: nonrace track.
An invisible car came out of nowhere, struck my vehicle and vanished.
I/O Bus: seven dwarves' transportation.
"Is that your gun, or are you glad to see me?" -- Mae West
It is a poor judge who cannot award a prize.
It's a poor workman who blames his tools.
It's a small world. But I wouldn't want to paint it.  -- Steve Wright
It is better to wear out than to rust out.
---- Plaintext end
-- 
Albert Y.C. Lai = trebla@io.org = 00Laiyuc@wave.scar.utoronto.ca
                = Lai@titania.scar.utoronto.ca
