Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!news.amherst.edu!news.mtholyoke.edu!uhog.mit.edu!MathWorks.Com!yeshua.marcam.com!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!nic-nac.CSU.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!netline-fddi.jpl.nasa.gov!nntp-server.caltech.edu!news.cerf.net!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!phr
From: phr@netcom.com (Paul Rubin)
Subject: Re: How to hide encrypted data on multiple disks
Message-ID: <phrCs1pDA.Bx4@netcom.com>
Keywords: steganography
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 261-4700 guest)
References: <16FE114418S86.C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu>
Date: Mon, 27 Jun 1994 07:41:34 GMT
Lines: 26

In article <16FE114418S86.C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu>,
 <C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu> wrote:
>   The obvious question is:  Would the random-looking blocks in unused
>clusters be "evidence" that there was something odd going on, either in
>partially-used or in unformatted disks?  In some countries, leaving a
>big space for doubt about whether or not someone has encrypted files
>would be enough to likely let them out of the slammer for contempt--in
>other countries, it might just lead to a really unpleasant discussion
>with some state-sponsored thugs about what the password to your random
>data is.  (Ah.  Rubber-hose cryptanalysis rears its ugly head again.)

Well, if you make it look like the random blocks are pieces of
deleted .zip files, they would be expected to look pretty random.
But careful analysis could probably distinguish blocks from .zip's
and really random (e.g. encrypted) blocks.

I thought about this too for a while and decided the best solution was
to write a formatting program that was somehow superior to the DOS
formatting program (in speed, features, etc.).  Distribute it via the
net so that as many people as possible start using it, or better yet,
somehow get Microsloth to ship it as part of DOS 7.  The interesting
side effect of this program is that it would write random data into
the unused blocks, rather than zeros.  If use of the program became
widespread enough, then possession of some disks with random data in
the unused blocks should not be cause for suspicion.

