Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: grinch@hookup.net (Reginald Braithwaite-Lee)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Fwd: Encryption in the Netherlands
Date: 27 Jun 1994 09:59:59 -0500
Organization: UTexas Mail-to-News Gateway
Lines: 71
Sender: nobody@cs.utexas.edu
Message-ID: <199406271459.KAA23115@noc.tor.hookup.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: news.cs.utexas.edu

Hi!

Remember about that article I wrote about encryption in the Netherlands?
Well, they canceled the law anyway, and there are given 5 good reasons
(not by the Gouvernment ofcourse! They never admit mistakes (do they?)):

1)      A coded message doesn't have to be garbage. It could just as
well be a normal story with a message in it. One can never prove that a
piece of text contains an encoded message. Read the other way around:
will the gouvernment disallow writing stories or do we 'just' have to
prove there is no message inside

2)      One cannot trust criminals. What they wanted to do is say "Ok,
you can use encryption etc., but you must give us the keys". They wanted
to store the keys in a central system. Now THAT would be nice for all
the criminals!

3)      A devil's advocate argument: Ok, maybe we don't catch all the
criminals, but certain crooks we get. Besides, the layperson has nothing
to lose. This is a bad and wrong argument.... Why do we still send
letters in an envelope? Why do commitees etc. make secret notes of their
meetings, and not allowing other people to read these? Are these people
criminals? Certainly not. If a jounalist discovers that a big shot in
the politics is also a commisioner in a malafide enterprise [recently a
minister got out of Parliament for just this reason ;-], the gouvernment
would be able to read the article as is it sent to the publisher.

4)      Again a word from the devil: The police already has the right to
tap phones and open mail when a crime is suspected. What's the
difference?" The difference is that messages are more and more sent in
an electronic way. and it is very simple to implement a system that
systematically scans each message for words like 'bom', 'we don't take
this much longer' etc. (I hope this reaches you ;-) and you take your
pick what to filter. En masse automatically scanning each message is
something completely different from tapping a phone here or there.

5)      Ok, let's use the Am. system, where each phone etc. gets a chip
(Clipper and Capstone). Place the decryption key in two parts with the
Gouvernment. If someone wants to decypher the code, he must first get
permission to get these two keys. It sounds better than what The
Netherlands was planning, but many Amricans don't trust it. It's strange
that the gouvernment doesn't want to make the Clipper-algorithm public;
for a really secure encryption algorithm, this is ok, ofcourse. Some
people see it as evidence that CIA, FBI or NSA have information how to
crack the Clipper-encoding.

I'll give an example of encoded messages in a text:

One takes a text, quite long, i.e.

"In a big, dark wood..."

The computer has a list of synonyms of important words in this text.
I.e. "BIG" and "HUGE", "DARK" and "BLACK", "WOOD" and "FOREST". The
first three bits of my encoded msg are 101, so my text starts as

"In a huge dark forest...", which is essentially the same text. Now, let
somebody prove there's a string of bits inside (we shouldn't ALL take
the same text, guys!)

--
Reginald Braithwaite-Lee
grinch@hookup.net

Public Key Fingerprint: D8 B8 C1 D0 DD 56 20 B4  06 A2 81 83 87 E8 8B 64
(Send message with subject "HELP" to pgp-public-keys@pgp.ox.ac.uk)

-> nCrypt, the strong cryptography application for Newton:
-> ftp.sumex-aim.stanford.edu/info-mac/nwt/utils/n-crypt-lite.hqx


