Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!csn!cherokee!engineer.mrg.uswest.com!engineer.mrg.uswest.com!not-for-mail
From: jan@engineer.mrg.uswest.com (Jan Vilhuber)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Making DES work between PC and SUN
Date: 27 Jun 1994 19:27:32 -0600
Organization: USWEST Marketing Resources
Lines: 44
Message-ID: <2unua4$37l@engineer.mrg.uswest.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: engineer.mrg.uswest.com

Hi.

I've got the following problem/question, and since I suspect I'm not
the first person with this problem, maybe someone knows the answer
or pointers in the right direction:

Scenario:
---------
We (US WEST, whom I work for) are writing a client/server based message
system program, whose client sits under Windows on a PC and the other side
sits on a SUN workstation. We got the the DES encryption libraries from SUN,
but it seems we can not get the same results as the people working on the PC.

*I* think the problem lies in the fact that they are using some algorythm
they typed in from some Dr. Dobbs Journal from years ago.

The Question:
-------------
Where can I find a Windows DLL library (they are using Visual Basic, BTW)
that will give me the same results as the SUN des library? Or, if that
is not possible (or no answer is readily availlable), how about some package
that is known to work the same (and has been successfully compiled and used)
on a UNIX box (SUN) and a PC running windows?

Note, that I saw a bunch of stuff that looked good on ripem.msu.edu. However
I don't know if we can agree to the license. *I* wouldn't have a problem
with it, but I'm sure my employers would, since they want to incorporate this
into the product, with which they, of course, want to make money. I'll have to
check with the legal folks on what all that legalese really means.

Commercial packages are (obviously) also an option.

Any pointers? I downloaded a lot of algorithms from the net and will hopefully
get around to compiling them and passing them on to the programmers who
wrote the windows program, but I could be waisting my time.

Thanks for any help in advance

jan vilhuber
US WEST MRG, Englewood, CO
jan@mrg.uswest.com
(303) 784-2845


