Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!news.amherst.edu!news.mtholyoke.edu!uhog.mit.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!swrinde!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!pacbell.com!amdahl!amd!netcomsv!fxgrp!smh
From: smh@fx.com (Steve Head)
Subject: NSA attempted coercion of RSA
Message-ID: <1994Jun28.182241.3687@fx.com>
Organization: FXD/Telerate, Mountain View, CA
X-Newsreader: Tin 1.1 PL4
Date: Tue, 28 Jun 1994 18:22:41 GMT
Lines: 77


Exerpts from an article in the San Jose Mercury News, June 27, 1994,
pp. 1D, 9D regarding the NSA and techniques used to promote Clipper
it as an industry standard.  The article is entitled "the Keys
to the Kingdom", and it was written by David Bank.

--smh

-----

  The government wants to be able to see private computer communications.
  A Silicon Valley entrepreneur is leading the fight to keep secret messages
  secret.
  
    [...]
  
  Jim Bidzos says he's not paranoid.  It's just that the government
  is out to get him.
  
  Bidzos' Redwood City company makes software for encrypting electronic mail
  and other computer communications that even the master code breakers
  at the National Security Agency can't crack.  That drives the agency,
  one of the most powerful and secretive of all the federal intelligence
  agencies, crazy.
  
  Take a meeting in April, for example, when three NSA agents dropped in
  on Bidzos, president of RSA Data Security Inc.  For two hours, Bidzos said,
  the agents were civil and pleasant as he drew diagrams, told jokes and tried
  to convince them that the agency's attempts to promote an alternative
  encryption scheme would fail.
  
  He must have said something wrong.  One of the agents threatened to run him
  over in the parking lot, Bidzos said.
  
  "He looked at me and very coldly said he would do me in," Bidzos said.
  "He clearly threatened me."
  
    [...]
  

  ...the NSA has sought to limit the spread of encryption technology
  such as that sold by RSA.  The encryption algorithms officially
  are classified as sensitive munitions, just as are nuclear triggers.
  The NSA as technical consultant to the U.S. State Department, has
  barred the export of software containing the full-strength versions
  of RSA's cryptography, except to overseas subsidiaries of U.S. companies.

  "I once ran into a senior official from the NSA and I asked him,
  'Obviously some people there don't really like us.  What's the problem?
  "He said, " The problem with you is that you exist.'"

  Bidzos claims the NSA has overstepped its role in export control
  and has interfered domestically in his relations with customers
  and potential customers.

    [two examples of interference are described by Bidzos, one involving
    RSA's deal with Microsoft.]
  
  "They [the NSA] crossed the line.  They used export (controls) as a club
  to discourage people from doing business with us." Bidzos said.  "I hate
  to use the word, but there are some interesting conspiracy aspects
  to all of this.  I've claimed that this is a covert action on the part
  of the NSA."

    [...]

  "Am I going to look back and think this was a bad thing that I am doing?"
  [Bidzos] wondered recently.  Then he answered his own question.  The
  NSA is too good at its job, he reasoned, for it to let anybody fundamentally
  undermine its ability to do it.

  "I know them well enough to know that if we push too hard, they'll push back
  just as hard," he said.  "If we are ever in dange of undermining the NSA,
  they will either buy us, or shoot us.

  "We'll know when we screw up.  We'll either be rich -- or dead."

