Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!rutgers!concert!gatech!swrinde!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!wb8foz
From: wb8foz@netcom.com (David Lesher)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto
Subject: The National Cryptologic Museum
Summary: review
Message-ID: <wb8fozCs4n58.4uK@netcom.com>
Date: 28 Jun 94 21:46:17 GMT
Followup-To: talk.politics.crypto
Distribution: na
Organization: NRK Clinic for habitual NetNews Abusers - Beltway Annex
Lines: 54
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:29103 talk.politics.crypto:6140

The NCM is located just east of the BWI Parkway, north of the RT32
exit. This is roughly midway between DC and Baltimore. It is open
?10:00 am? until 3:00pm M-F, but Saturday hours may be available later
in the summer - tel 301 688 5849. Admission is free. There are
lots of signs, and an access road designed to discourage you.....

At present, the lobby has a fascinating D-Day photo exhibit. It includes
copies of documents allocating the deception troops that formed the
First US Army Group under Patton, pictures of the Group's famous rubber
tanks and jeeps, maps of Fortitude, and even a shot of Patton where he
was not supposed to be.....

In the main museum, several very old, very rare, books are on display.
(I'm rather surprised they are exposed to so much light, even within
their protective enclosures.)

There are a few items from the Civil war and Black Chamber eras, but as
befits NSA, most of the material is more recent. William Friedman is
well represented.

The Enigma area has several models, including two 4-rotor naval models.
One three-rotor machine is exposed and in running order; you are
invited to "give it a try" and record the results. The problems faced
in the field soon became obvious, as the unit had a burnt-old lamp in
the "V" position. (If there is a 'lamp-test' switch -- locating same
requires some German ;-)

In addition, there is a Sigaba, a Typex, a Tunny and a Sturgeon.  The
only fragment of a Purple machine is from the Japanese Embassy in
Berlin.

In many ways, the decisions behind what is _missing_ from the exhibits
are as intriguing as what is there. The USS Liberty has a large
memorial exhibit (it even admits the losses of NSA employees on board);
but the Pueblo is not mentioned at all. The KGB panel shows a Great
Seal replica, but not a word about the infamous Selectric typewriters.
The Zimmerman telegram is also absent. Contemplating these, one gets a
feel for the vast internal struggles the NSA must grapple with to have
a public exhibit at all.

There are several excellent handouts. One is on D-Day and another covers
Bombes. Both have suggested reading lists. There is already work under
way to expand into an adjacent room; I noticed a KY-71 and other
contemporary equipment in the back of that area.

If you have the hour or two needed, and are in the area, the Museum is
a worthwhile stop. It's rather doubtful, however, that any
non-crypto-enthused family members will share your interest.

-- 
A host is a host from coast to coast.................wb8foz@nrk.com
& no one will talk to a host that's close...........(v)301 56 LINUX
Unless the host (that isn't close)....kibo# 777............pob 1433
is busy, hung or dead..............vr....................20915-1433
