Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!dsinc!newsfeed.pitt.edu!gatech!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: padrote@delphi.com
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: A need for a moderated group.
Date: Wed, 29 Jun 94 19:13:17 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 61
Message-ID: <5yzR5kN.padrote@delphi.com>
References: <2ursgh$phb@ccu2.auckland.ac.nz>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1c.delphi.com
X-To: Peter Gutmann <pgut1@cs.aukuni.ac.nz>

   You have a very good point. This newsgroup, like so many others, 
does contain a great deal of worthless material. And frankly I'm 
tired of having to wade through it all to decide which articles are 
worth reading. It takes up a lot of my time. Usually I can tell just 
from the title ("Betcha can't crack my new code!!"), but sometimes 
in order to make a decision I am forced to read things that are not 
worth my time. I too would prefer to have someone else do that for 
me. I like your idea. A committee should be set up to screen the 
articles to determine which ones are worth posting.

   I'm sure many will volunteer to be reviewers, but I have a better 
idea. I suggest that the members of the review committee be drawn 
from the U.S. National Security Agency. These people are, after all, 
recognized experts in the field of cryptology, and since they are 
employees of the U.S. government there will be no doubt as to their 
impartiality and good faith (I realize you are in Australia, but the 
close cooperation between the NSA and its Australian counterpart - 
at the Pine Gap listening station, for example - should give you 
confidence). Several years ago the NSA offered to provide a similar 
screening service for non-governmental cryptologists in the U.S., to 
determine the suitability of articles for publication in journals or 
presentation at conferences. They also offered their services to the 
U.S. National Science Foundation to help them decide what research 
to fund in this field. So given the Agency's willingness to lend a 
hand in the past, I am sure it would be happy to do the same thing 
for your new moderated newsgroup. My letter asking for NSA 
assistance will dovetail nicely with your request for the moderated 
group. Maybe we can even get Admiral Bobby Inman - or some other 
well-respected figure from the intelligence community - to sign off 
on your request! Let's coordinate our efforts. E-mail me.

                            ...........

   The title of this group is sci.crypt after all, not talk.crypt. 
And what is the function of science if not to jealously guard the 
body of knowledge and protect it from unpopular theories and 
opinions? Science must also keep out the uninitiated - the newbies, 
if you will - who have not yet earned the right to address the 
members of the community. They waste our time with trivial 
questions. Let them learn the way we all did: at our advisor's knee, 
in graduate school. Once they have been granted their PhD's, they 
can ask all the impertinent questions they want to. So I am in total 
agreement. We need a moderated newsgroup. I don't want to read any 
more garbage.

   I had the same feeling the other day when I walked into my local 
library. So many books and magazines, and the majority of them are 
trash -- radical political journals of the left and right, romance 
novels, children's books. A lot of things I just don't care to read. 
A much more efficient system would be for a committee of librarians 
to choose two or three books every month that they think I should 
read, and simply send them over to my house. Come to think of it, 
why leave such important decisions to the local librarians? It 
should be a program of the Federal government. 


John

The preceeding paragraphs may be unsuitable for small children and 
the sarcasm-impaired.

