Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!xlink.net!rz.uni-karlsruhe.de!stepsun.uni-kl.de!uklirb!posthorn!vier!neuhaus
From: neuhaus@vier.informatik.uni-kl.de (Stephan Neuhaus (HiWi Mattern))
Subject: Re: pgp
Message-ID: <neuhaus.738920674@vier>
Sender: news@posthorn.informatik.uni-kl.de (News system account)
Nntp-Posting-Host: vier.informatik.uni-kl.de
Organization: University of Kaiserslautern, Germany
References: <3m1a5B5w165w@sizone.jaywon.pci.on.ca>
Date: Tue, 1 Jun 1993 07:44:34 GMT
Lines: 39

cyber@sizone.jaywon.pci.on.ca (Enhanced 911 Services) writes:

>How secure is the encryption PGP uses on its key rings?  If someone gets 
>ahold of your encrypted secret keys, how much effort would they have to 
>expend to break that encryption?  In other words, how much of a risk are 
>you taking if your encrypted secret key is more or less a publically 
>accessable file?

The private key is encrypted with the same algorithm with which your
messages are encrypted, namely IDEA.  The IDEA key is derived from your
pass phrase by putting it through MD5.

Nevertheless, I think that you should never, never make your private
key accessible, encrypted or not.  The problem I see is that if
anybody gets hold of the encrypted key, and if they subsequently crack
the pass phrase, they can read *all* your encrypted communications.
This contrasts with message encryption, where a successful crack will
only give them one message, since the session keys are ``random''.

So, my advice is: Never, *never* leave an important private key on a
computer that you do not have exclusive access to.

One possible exception is the use of a private key for encrypted talk
connections.  For example, there is a special talk key on my machine
that I can use for PGP-encrypted talk.  I don't mind if it gets stolen
because I will change it every month or so anyway.  By the time the
bad guys have cracked the IDEA encryption on the key, the contents of
these encrypted talks will be yesterday's news, and I probably don't
mind if they leak or not.

(The problem is that to use encrypted talk, you have to have a network
connection, which some see as a security hole in itself.)

Have fun.

-- 
Stephan <neuhaus@informatik.uni-kl.de>
sig closed for inventory.  Please leave your pickaxe outside.
PGP 2.2 public key available on request.  Note the expiration date.
