Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!sdd.hp.com!col.hp.com!csn!yuma!ld231782
From: ld231782@LANCE.ColoState.Edu (L. Detweiler)
Subject: L. translates NSAspeak on Clipper & cryptography
Sender: news@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU (News Account)
Message-ID: <Jun08.055355.35327@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU>
Date: Tue, 08 Jun 1993 05:53:55 GMT
Nntp-Posting-Host: traver.lance.colostate.edu
Organization: Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO  80523
Lines: 230
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:16907 alt.privacy.clipper:589


Enclosed for your viewing pleasure:

1. NSAspeak from Denning & NSA Director advisor translated.
2. WARNING regarding legislated cryptography restrictions or bans.
3. NSAspeak from Gobel translated in continuing tedious flamefest.

- - -

Ah, a chance to exercise my NSAspeak translation aptitude for your 
enjoyment.  First, we have a quote from D. Denning from Mercury News, 
June 7, 1993, courtesy of  darrell@cse.ucsc.edu (Darrell Long):

| "We're living in a fast-moving world, and I don't think we have the
| luxury to spend a lot of time, on the order of a number of years, to
| address these issues," said Dorothy Denning, chair of the computer
| science department at Georgetown University.  "Should the public even
| be involved?  I don't know."

Translation:

``This widespread commercial cryptography stuff is rapidly getting away 
from me and my close friends in the NSA, and I don't think they'll 
be able to effectively monopolize, sabotage, and cripple it like they have 
in the past with a lot of this bothersome critical public scrutiny and 
debate.''

I sure hope those insulated NSA bureacrats are feeling at least some 
prickly, uncomfortable heat on this Clipper crap-flap, but I don't think 
it's getting through, people. That's the problem: NSA has a *huge* 
investment in Clipper and Capstone.  It is the key to their future.
They have staked great hopes on it. All their cherished beliefs ride 
on it. Hence, the point escapes them:

ComputerWorld
June 7, 1993
Vol. 27, No. 23
page 21
(courtesy fergp@sytex.com, Paul Ferguson)

>"We tried to come up with a technique that would not require
>legislation," said Clint Brooks, advisor to the director of the
>National Security Agency, which developed and now strongly
>supports the key-escrow approach.

The past tense and defensive tone are encouraging and nice touches, 
but the smug, veiled threat is obscenely obnoxious, and they still don't 
sound very rattled or besieged.  Maybe somebody could figure out who came 
up with the Clipper idea in the first place and we could focus the 
sun and the magnifying glass.  SSSST!

These endangered bureacrats in their eerily silent, incestuously 
isolated, foam-padded towers just don't understand that any law 
restricting cryptography would be blatantly, egregiously, grotesquely
unconstitutional under protections of free speech, and virtually 
tantamount to restricting communication. (I would almost enjoy to see 
how some wretched, faceless, NSAspeaking grunt decides how to 
distinguish illegal `cryptography' from legal `communication' -- Maybe 
by introducing a new Ministry of Truth Agency?)  All hell would break 
lose if any such attempt reared its hideously monstrous face--
imagine the Clipper `flap' multiplied by a terrorbyte. Something like 
this would be enough ammunition for a devastating or even deathly 
Supreme Court assault on the Putrid Palace.

Good lord, even Sternlight the First, who thinks much controversy on 
Clipper is being erroneously `conflated' as `a big civil liberties 
brouhaha', has some sense to draw a line somewhere:

>And I'd oppose any attempt to outlaw alternatives since I
>think they are constitutionally protected and law enforcement already has
>adequate tools for dealing with criminal and espionage matters.

- - -

WARNING to readers of sci.crypt! I believe, based on the spurious and 
obscure grumblings emanating from the various media, these restrictions 
on cryptography use are currently being CONTEMPLATED. If I were a warped 
NSA bureacrat, lets see, how would I go about doing this?

1. Call up accomplices on Capitol Hill. Impress them with the classic 
`national security at stake, not allowed to elaborate, you wouldn't 
understand technical consequences, BUT' flimflam approach. Other more 
serious leverage includes: we seem to have [x] base or [y] program or 
[z] employees in your district that might have to be `relocated' or SHUT
DOWN if this issue fails (all those radio stations occasionally come in 
handy).

2. Get them to hammer out some bills. Keep it secret until the last 
possible moment. Secret meetings, etc. Try the FBI trick of getting the 
bill as an obscure `rider' on other legislation. Figure out how to keep 
the libertarian whistleblower busibodies from spoiling the party. There 
might even be a way of getting legislation passed without anybody knowing 
about it. The trick of getting a law in place that has a different effect
than that ostensibly stated is very useful here. Something like 
`regulating cryptographic devices to protect national security' or
`licensing cryptographic devices to ensure their strength and protect the
consumer' come to mind (of a slimy scoundrel).

3. Trumpet and parade all the cute cliches and fantastic fanfare into the
mesmerized media on the T-zero rollout day. Crank up the word spewing 
machines with fresh batches of `criminals, drug dealers, terrorists, 
rapists, pedophiles' in the BLAST bin and `American businesses', 
`individual privacy', `legitimate law-enforcement', `national security' 
etc. in the UPHOLD bin. Interviews with proponents saying things like 
`one things for sure--criminals don't deserve privacy' or `I feel safe 
knowing the government is protecting my keys' or `anybody who objects 
must have something to hide' or `this helps ensure consumers are not
ripped off by shoddy cryptography'.  Maybe even public incentives,
promotions, or an advertising campaign!

NSA&FBI pro-wiretapping slogans!
* As trustworthy as government itself.
* Working to protect your privacy as long as you deserve it.
* Practice safe sends. Use a clipper or a capstone.
* wiretapping: as American as alcoholism.
* putting the fear back into the criminals.
* if you're not a criminal, you have nothing to worry about.
* built for performance and efficiency.
* a policeman's insurance policy.
* so inconspicuous you won't even notice it. We guarantee it.

- - -

The rest of this article is dedicated to one of those vitriolic, 
vicious, and verbose flamefests you will find either boring or funny.

Once again I must thank you Mr. Goble for his at times hilariously 
absurd comments, proving that some defenses are so pathetic they're funny. (Personal note to Mr. Goble: I've been careful to limit my notes to 
your stated opinions. If you are so wrapped up in them you think this 
amounts to personal attacks, I can't be responsible for your own rattled 
image of self-esteem.  Nor do I claim to hold a monopoly on honesty.)

>Whether or not Mr. Bamford spent a great deal of time researching his
>book is not the issue.  The issue is that he is wrong on many points.
>Which points I am not at liberty to discuss.

Meaningless and cowardly NSAspeak. 

Q: Why are NSA employees so upset by Bamford & _Puzzle_Palace_?
A: Sorry, that's classified information.

Now, put your hand on the bible and repeat after me: I'm not affiliated 
in any way whatsoever with the NSA.

>My
>opinion is that the U.S. Government is not an evil entity, wholely
>dedicated to invading your personal space.  Most branches are too
>inefficient to ever do a very good job if it were.

Yes, we should rely on the `inefficiency' of government to safeguard 
our rights, not anything uncomfortably solid like secure cryptography.

[Bamford, _Puzzle_Palace_]
>Your little attack here on me, while very
>impressive and emotional adds little to your contention that the book is a
>great work.  If there is any hypocrisy here it is that you would elevate a
>piece of sensationalist pulp to the rank of great literature.

I just wanted to include this for anyone who missed it. If for you it is an
honor to be Sternlight II, for me it is an honor to be flamed by Sternlight
II--especially while at the same time relegating _Puzzle_Palace_ to 
`sensationalistic pulp'. This reminds me so much of Sternlights comment's 
on CPSR NSA FOIA documentation and commentary: `It is a poor piece of work 
as I've read in a long time and if CPSR intends to be useful they need to 
get their act together rather better than Dave Sobel's bitch memo.'

For the record, I'm sure there are minor inaccuracies in Bamford's work, 
but I'm sure your condemnation of it is largely based on its 
nerve-defraying, home-hitting, prejudice-threatening, ego-shattering, 
loud-ringing truth.

>The government has no genetic engineering lab to produce
>little J. Edgar Hoovers to work for the FBI.

[ROFL] Active research efforts are underway. Every once in awhile a mad 
Frankenstien escapes from the lab to sabotage and terrorize the world and 
sci.crypt. (BTW, you seem to have a strange preoccupation with Hoover; 
I wonder where this comes from?)

>And the Clipper chip,
>well it is more threatening than the invention of nuclear weapons.

Is cryptography a weapon or not? Well, the NSA certainly seems to have 
made up its mind.

I'll say this: cryptography is intrinisic to communication itself, and 
will eventually become as ubiquitous.

>If
>anytime is obnoxious and condescending, it is your contention that you
>know the intentions, thoughts and desires of every person who had anything
>to do with this initiative, and that your own intentions, thoughts and
>desires are cleaner, more noble, and are somehow always correct.

Those poor anonymous Clipper developers, slaving away in obscurity when 
they should be treated like royalty for their commemorable feat of ethical 
grandeur and engineering majesty. I BESEECH YOU to give me a name and address 
so I can send an ebullient postcard.

>2.  The NSA does not monitor US communications.  This is indeed illegal.

The NSA is not supposed to monitor communications occuring entirely within 
the U.S. There are no limitations on surveillance of communications between 
an American and an outside international destination. As I recall there are 
limitations on disclosure of such information, however. If they exist, they 
are obscure and probably meaningless. And besides, how easy is it to defend 
an agency that apparently regularly spies on our *allies*?

>All I am saying is this. The FBI does not care about what the average
>citizen is saying on his or her car phone.

This is very reassuring.  The proper statement in a civilized society should 
be that `[law enforcement agency X] is only concerned about catching 
criminals using honest and lawful means without lazy, illegitimate, and 
dangerous crutches like wiretapping.'

>However, U.S. business secrets are being lost over phone and over computer
>nets.  And not only to foreign competitors. If you use a phone or computer
>to conduct business, you need to be aware of this and take precautions.

oh, woe is us, save us from the dastardly Economic Espionage Bogeymen. Let 
Mr. SuperNSA with his razor-sharp Clipper and gleaming Capstone rescue the 
beautiful and innocent but completely helpless Lady Business and forever 
uphold the American Way.

Here that terrible screeching? that's the sound of sacred cows being gored.

--

ld231782@longs.LANCE.ColoState.EDU
