Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!darwin.sura.net!guvax.acc.georgetown.edu!denning
From: denning@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper
Subject: Re: L. translates NSAspeak on Clipper & cryptography
Message-ID: <1993Jun8.142630.4113@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu>
Date: 8 Jun 93 14:26:29 -0400
References: <Jun08.055355.35327@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU>
Distribution: world
Organization: Georgetown University
Lines: 81
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:16919 alt.privacy.clipper:604

In article <Jun08.055355.35327@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU>, ld231782@LANCE.ColoState.Edu (L. Detweiler) writes:
> 
> 
> Ah, a chance to exercise my NSAspeak translation aptitude for your 
> enjoyment.  First, we have a quote from D. Denning from Mercury News, 
> June 7, 1993, courtesy of  darrell@cse.ucsc.edu (Darrell Long):
> 
> | "We're living in a fast-moving world, and I don't think we have the
> | luxury to spend a lot of time, on the order of a number of years, to
> | address these issues," said Dorothy Denning, chair of the computer
> | science department at Georgetown University.  "Should the public even
> | be involved?  I don't know."
> 
> Translation:
> 
> ``This widespread commercial cryptography stuff is rapidly getting away 
> from me and my close friends in the NSA, and I don't think they'll 
> be able to effectively monopolize, sabotage, and cripple it like they have 
> in the past with a lot of this bothersome critical public scrutiny and 
> debate.''
> 
I don't recall my exact words, but the quote is out of context and 
does not express what I was trying to say.  Of course the public 
should be involved in the assessment of the Clipper proposal and 
the broader debate taking place on national crypto policy.  In 
fact the public is involved through forums such as the NIST meeting, 
the CPSR meeting on Monday, the Digital Privacy and Security Working
Group, Congressional hearings, panels at conferences, publications, the 
media, sci.crypt and other news groups, etc.  I recall saying at the
end of my presentation that the meeting was a good idea. Ditto for the
others. The quote "Should the public even be involved?  I don't know,"  
came from my comments about whether the public should have been 
involved in the project prior to the announcement on April 16.  That
is what I don't know.  I can see reasons for the government putting
together a specific program before going public in much the same way
that companies put together programs and products before going 
public, even with their shareholders.  In addition, the
technology under consideration was classified, which would have 
complicated going public (this is also analogous to companies working
with proprietary information).  Having a concrete proposal on the
table also has helped focus the crypto debate.  We now know what's
at stake and who are the stakeholders.

With respect to the length of the review, I was responding mostly to
suggestions by others that we should abort the whole program and 
undertake an exhaustive study to answer all the unknown questions and
develop other alternatives before moving forward with the Clipper Chip.  
I could envision such a study taking years (decades if we couldn't
find a handy Oracle to tell us about the future :-), after which it would be
necessary to spend several more years in R&D if another technical 
solution was adopted. I wanted to voice my opinion that I did not 
believe that the whole process should be held up for 5-10 years
(though this should not preclude developing alternatives in parallel).
One reason is that the initiative is voluntary. If the Clipper Chip
is brought out in products relatively soon, then there is the 
opportunity for the market to answer many of the questions, and do
so better than just analysis (of course you want analysis too,
but often it's hard to predict how something will go over without
trying it).  Plus the government wants the AT&T phones to use -- 
shouldn't they be allowed to?  The market-oriented nature of this program 
appeals to me immensely, much more than the regulated approach
I suggested we consider in my CACM article.  Another reason for 
bringing Clipper to market is that it could be too late to do anything 
at all about the law enforcement needs if telephone security devices such
as the AT&T device come to market and take off using something like DES.

Even though I believe the chip should go forward, I also believe
that we will be debating the issues and considering alternative
policies & technical approaches for the indefinite future.  The only 
thing that I can think of that might stop the debate would be a national 
decision to stop all controls on crypto technology.  This would be a 
giant leap from where we are now, so don't hold your breadth :-)

I hope this at least clarifies my comments.  I'm reminded of one
of my favorite quotes:

"I know you believe you understand what you think I said, but I am not
sure you realize that what you read is not what I meant."

Dorothy Denning
denning@cs.georgetown.edu
