Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!wupost!csus.edu!netcom.com!trimm
From: trimm@netcom.com (Trimm Industries)
Subject: Re: L. translates NSAspeak on Clipper & cryptography
Message-ID: <trimmC8C028.AI4@netcom.com>
Organization: Netcom Online Communications Services (408-241-9760 login: guest)
References: <Jun08.055355.35327@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU> <1993Jun8.142630.4113@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu>
Date: Wed, 9 Jun 1993 01:56:32 GMT
Lines: 48
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:16927 alt.privacy.clipper:616

In article <1993Jun8.142630.4113@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu> denning@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu writes:

>One reason is that the initiative is voluntary. If the Clipper Chip
>is brought out in products relatively soon, then there is the 
>opportunity for the market to answer many of the questions, and do
>so better than just analysis (of course you want analysis too,
>but often it's hard to predict how something will go over without
>trying it).  Plus the government wants the AT&T phones to use -- 
>shouldn't they be allowed to?  The market-oriented nature of this program 
>appeals to me immensely, much more than the regulated approach
>I suggested we consider in my CACM article. 

How do you respond to the concerns of the private sector to the
government having total control over this single sourced component?
After all, if I design in the Mykotronx part (fab by silicon house
de jour) what's to stop the USG from saying next year that they
have decided to discontinue the project?  Not that I, as an 
Electronic Engineer, would *ever* consider using this wiretap chip,
but I mean sorta hypothetically...

It conjurs up images of running General Motors, then depending upon
Congress to supply me my pistons.  Who do I go to if there is a high
field failure rate?  With a government monopoly, what's going to 
keep costs down, and keep driving up performance?  What if I have a
specialized need for a higher data rate?  Or, to save money at an
accepted compromise in performance, I want to embed the algorithm
into my microcontroller's firmware?  Or, I need an additional feature
that Mykotronx doesn't offer, such as a low power sleep mode for
laptop computers or portable cellular phones?

The free market offers me as an engineer a vast array of solutions.
When the government uses my tax dollars as a weapon against my
little but hard-won R&D budget, and effectively creates a 
monopoly for itself, how am I supposed to feel?

Have you seen the financial report stolen from Mykotronx's dumpster
and reprinted here that showed the financial windfall this whole
Clipper project has brought them?  Something like a million dollars
in bonuses in the first 4 months of 1993.  

If NSA wants to do something useful they could release to the general
public a good cipher algorithm with at least a 256 bit key that's
at least as good as RSA, along with any necessary justifications
for unusual design features, put it in a FIPS pub as a National Standard,
and leave it at that.

Gary Watson

