Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!csn!yuma!ld231782
From: ld231782@LANCE.ColoState.Edu (L. Detweiler)
Subject: Ms. Denning ?s from the woodwork
Sender: news@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU (News Account)
Message-ID: <Jun09.075727.69627@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU>
Date: Wed, 09 Jun 1993 07:57:27 GMT
Nntp-Posting-Host: traver.lance.colostate.edu
Organization: Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO  80523
Lines: 132


Let me first express my absolute overwhelming elation and glee to be
sufficiently offensive to elicit a response from the emminent and
always entertaining D. Denning <denning@cs.georgetown.edu>. I don't
think we have any real-life NSA spooks around here (the jury is out
on Mr. Goble) and she serves up a scrumptious imitation.  I'd be
bored to tears if it weren't for the Threatening Three permitting
me the opportunity to reach new heights (depths?) of cackling, flaming 
grandeur. (Tonight's show may contain scenes disturbing to some. Viewer
discretion is advised.)

>In 
>fact the public is involved through forums such as the NIST meeting, 
>the CPSR meeting on Monday, the Digital Privacy and Security Working
>Group, Congressional hearings, panels at conferences, publications, the 
>media, sci.crypt and other news groups, etc. 

Yes, but how much of that did the NSA organize and promote? How much
did it skew? And how much would it have liked to silence?

>The quote "Should the public even be involved?  I don't know,"  
>came from my comments about whether the public should have been 
>involved in the project prior to the announcement on April 16.  That
>is what I don't know.

With key escrow, you are proposing to alter the fundamental course of
commercial digital technology and even cryptographic development itself for
all the future, during the emergence of vast but fragile global, 
international digital highways, and perhaps the most critical period of
communication existence. The NSA has brazenly decided that it has authority 
in the realm of domestic U.S. cryptography, even to the point of monopolism
with Mycotronx and collusion with AT&T, proposing an inscrutable standard
and new ugly, inconceivably bizarre bureacratic outgrowths like escrow
agencies, and the vague allusions of violating the Constitution if the
public chokes on it.  And you're not sure if the American public ought to
be involved.

>I can see reasons for the government putting
>together a specific program before going public in much the same way
>that companies put together programs and products before going 
>public, even with their shareholders.

That's not what's happened. "They" delayed the introduction to the last
possible minute, after all backstage machinations, including assurances
by AT&T, complete production of the chips, and the wholehearted support 
of the Clinton administration, had been secured and exhausted. Easily 
millions of dollars of taxpayer money into a black program going back to 
the Bush administration and lingering on defiantly past a nationwide 
transfer of power. On April 16 there was simply nothing left to do but 
unveil the monster.

>Having a concrete proposal on the
>table also has helped focus the crypto debate. We now know what's
>at stake and who are the stakeholders.

The lead and copper balloons have magically turned into a concrete proposal.
We cannot underestimate this weighty matter!  Sure enough, we've got focus, 
namely the sun through the magnifying glass. SSST! Dracula's chest is at 
stake, and sensible and conscientious Americans are the stakeholders.  
But there's no juicy monster steak for anyone *yet*.  The slippery ghoul 
keeps disappearing in the shadows with a coffin.  Hack, Hack.

>... it would be
>necessary to spend several more years in R&D if another technical 
>solution was adopted.
>I wanted to voice my opinion that I did not 
>believe that the whole process should be held up for 5-10 years
>(though this should not preclude developing alternatives in parallel).

`Another technical solution adopted'? `developing alternatives in parallel'?
You'd better believe it will be held up, like a corpse is held up by a rope.
Try to forget about it.  There are no alternatives to secure cryptography.

>of course you want analysis too,
>but often it's hard to predict how something will go over without
>trying it ...

Hm, I guess that's correct if asking the people it would seriously and 
even severely affect or the recognized experts in the cryptographic field
were completely out the question.

>Plus the government wants the AT&T phones to use -- 
>shouldn't they be allowed to? 

Whose government? yours or mine?  Other industrious telephone developers 
and cryptographic vendors besides AT&T and Mycotronx want to compete 
to win lucrative or even survival-determining government business -- 
why aren't they be allowed to?

>The market-oriented nature of this program 
>appeals to me immensely, much more than the regulated approach
>I suggested we consider in my CACM article.

The choice is losing in the marketplace or the Supreme Court. Take your 
pick. The marketplace does have a way of at least allowing failures to 
die in quiet obscurity. The Supreme Court, media, and general American
public would not be so kind. In fact, they would be savage.  Domestic 
cryptographic regulations? What'd you say?! Does the NSA want to be 
humiliated to the point of disintegration?

>Another reason for 
>bringing Clipper to market is that it could be too late to do anything 
>at all about the law enforcement needs if telephone security devices such
>as the AT&T device come to market and take off using something like DES.

Boy, this is really clairvoyant. Rather cute of you to use it as your 
last-but-not-least justification.

>The only 
>thing that I can think of that might stop the debate would be a national 
>decision to stop all controls on crypto technology.  This would be a 
>giant leap from where we are now, so don't hold your breadth :-)

That wacky NSA humor gets me every time. Ho. ho. ho. The only thing I can 
think of that would stop the Clipper is an intelligent and informed American
populace, unintimidated by hordes of secretive, manipulative, and expensive
black spooks scheming of ingenious ways to deprive us of privacy. This would 
be a giant leap from where we are now, so don't hold your breath :-)

>I'm reminded of one of my favorite quotes:
>
>"I know you believe you understand what you think I said, but I am not
>sure you realize that what you read is not what I meant."

Obfuscation and obscurity: the last refuges of endangered bureacrats.

<phew!> does anyone have some ice water handy?


--

ld231782@longs.LANCE.ColoState.EDU
