Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!hubcap!ncrcae!ncrhub2!ncrgw2!psinntp!uuneo!sugar!dneal
From: dneal@NeoSoft.com (David Neal)
Subject: Re: L. translates NSAspeak on Clipper & cryptography
Organization: NeoSoft Communications Services -- (713) 684-5900
Date: Tue, 8 Jun 1993 21:55:49 GMT
Message-ID: <C8Box2.J6t@sugar.NeoSoft.COM>
References: <Jun08.055355.35327@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU> <1993Jun8.142630.4113@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu>
Lines: 138
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:16930 alt.privacy.clipper:617

In article <1993Jun8.142630.4113@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu> denning@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu writes:
>                                            Of course the public 
>should be involved in the assessment of the Clipper proposal and 
>the broader debate taking place on national crypto policy.  In 
>fact the public is involved through forums such as the NIST meeting, 
>the CPSR meeting on Monday, the Digital Privacy and Security Working
>Group, Congressional hearings, panels at conferences, publications, the 
>media, sci.crypt and other news groups, etc.  

All true, no doubt. I personally object to not being involved
earlier in the design. The public is involved in any number of
debates in government, and in fact so are special interests
via lobbying. However, at this late date public is unable able to 
have any impact on Clipper/Capstone's algorithms, which we are 
in fact forbidden to know.

Would I or anyone else on sci.crypt have chosen Clipper/Capstone
as it stands now were the public involved? Of course not.
The government would have never been able to get academia
and industry to agree to a key escrow system. I state that
as fact, but it's obviously my opinion. 

>                       I can see reasons for the government putting
>together a specific program before going public in much the same way
>that companies put together programs and products before going 
>public, even with their shareholders.  

Well, companies protect proprietary information because they must.
Else, the competetion could use said information to an
advantage. What competetion exists for the government? Only
manufacturers of cryptographic equipment, who would have 
quickly cried foul. More importantly, so would the ACLU, CPSR
and other folks over the key escrow issue. Clipper could have
died prematurely.

>                                       In addition, the
>technology under consideration was classified, which would have 
>complicated going public (this is also analogous to companies working
>with proprietary information).  Having a concrete proposal on the
>table also has helped focus the crypto debate.  We now know what's
>at stake and who are the stakeholders.
>

Yes, we do. Privacy and whether the government has the right
to broach it. No-one would stand for having an NSA agent
standing between any two people each time they had a conversation
and taping it 'Just In Case' someone somewhere might be doing
something illegal. Yet, the NSA (via it's mouthpiece the NIST)
propose that we do essentially that. We put a backdoor into
every conversation 'Just In Case' someone somewhere is doing
something illegal.

>                      I wanted to voice my opinion that I did not 
>believe that the whole process should be held up for 5-10 years
>(though this should not preclude developing alternatives in parallel).
>One reason is that the initiative is voluntary. If the Clipper Chip
>is brought out in products relatively soon, then there is the 
>opportunity for the market to answer many of the questions, and do
>so better than just analysis (of course you want analysis too,
>but often it's hard to predict how something will go over without
>trying it).  

Yes, the initiative is voluntary. Unfortunately for the average
consumer, Clipper could quickly become the de-facto standard.

At that point, nothing is voluntary any more. At that point,
manufacturers must included a Clipper chip in their phones
along with a proprietary chip if they want to compete with
Clipper. At that point, a competitor must sink the same
kind of money into R&D that NSA/NIST did to come up with 
a comparable hardware solution, even if they use an already
developed algorithm.

However, do I want market forces determining whether the
government can keep in escrow my keys? Something that
I consider unconstitutionl? Of course not. That's the point.
I do not wish to see Clipper marketed as it stands because
it violates my rights as a citizen. Doing so would
establish a precedent I do not wish to be set.

>             Plus the government wants the AT&T phones to use -- 
>shouldn't they be allowed to?  

Of course -- more power to them. Just don't let them shove it
down my throat. The White House has already said it's possible
other forms of cryptography could be banned.  De-facto standard
is nail #1 in the coffin, and a ban would be nail #2.


>                               The market-oriented nature of this program 
>appeals to me immensely, much more than the regulated approach
>I suggested we consider in my CACM article.  Another reason for 
>bringing Clipper to market is that it could be too late to do anything 
>at all about the law enforcement needs if telephone security devices such
>as the AT&T device come to market and take off using something like DES.
>

Ah, and now we are at the crux of the matter. If someone else
came out FIRST with an ecrypting phone, and IT became the
de-facto standard, it could be too late for law enforcement
to force clipper upon us. 

Yes, I agree totally. Obviously Ms. Denning, this is where
you and I disagree. You feel that law-enforcements concerns
over being able to wire-tap should be addressed as do I,
but your answer and mine are widely opposed. You feel law
enforcement should be given the needed back door 'Just In Case'.
I feel law enforcement should be given a swift kick in the butt
and told to shove off. With a recommendation to read that section
that says 'By The People, For The People', not 'By Law Enforcement,
For Law Enforcement'.

My life is not about making the job of Law Enforcement easier.
And their job is not about making my life any harder. LE has
to dance around my rights, and I have to dance around their laws.
Together, most of the time, we waltz around the Senate Floor
and House Floor, sometimes dipping to the Executive while
the Judiciary watches on and judges. Well, the NSA just 
cut in unannounced and stepped on my toes.

They asked that I forfeit a right in order to expedite their 
enforcement of the law. My answer is No.

>Even though I believe the chip should go forward, I also believe
>that we will be debating the issues and considering alternative
>policies & technical approaches for the indefinite future.  The only 
>thing that I can think of that might stop the debate would be a national 
>decision to stop all controls on crypto technology.  

We'll see, we'll see.




-- 
David Neal. <dneal@neosoft.com> "I don't have a lot of dead bodies laying 
around here or dead children from an airplane explosion that we haven't been 
able to solve -- yet." James Kallstrom, FBI, in defense of Clipper/Capstone
