Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!usenet.ufl.edu!nervm.nerdc.ufl.edu!WILCO
From: WILCO@nervm.nerdc.ufl.edu
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper,alt.society.civil-liberty,alt.politics.org.misc,alt.society.resistance,alt.privacy,comp.org.eff.talk
Subject: Re: [repost] L. translates NSAspeak on Clipper & cryptography
Date: Wed, 09 Jun 93 17:42:26 EDT
Organization: University of Florida, NERDC
Lines: 58
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <16BE8F906.WILCO@nervm.nerdc.ufl.edu>
References: <1993Jun8.142630.4113@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu> <1993Jun8.233301.4011@nntp.hut.fi> <1v51u5INNfkj@NYAYA.SYSTEMSZ.CS.YALE.EDU> <strnlghtC8DBzD.4wE@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: nervm.nerdc.ufl.edu
X-Newsreader: NNR/VM S_1.3.2
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:16962 alt.privacy.clipper:639 alt.society.civil-liberty:9734 alt.politics.org.misc:704 alt.society.resistance:82 alt.privacy:7227 comp.org.eff.talk:18354

In article <strnlghtC8DBzD.4wE@netcom.com>
strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:
 <among other things>
>
>Given my assumptions, the problem becomes preventing the bad guys from
>getting really secure communications. Hence the secrecy of the algorithm,
>the protection of the chip, and the key escrow with court order.
>
>It seems to me the government is trying to go pretty far in giving us the
>NSA's better stuff, and riding on my assumptions, I'll take it. You don't
>have to, and shouldn't be forced to.
 
    What in the name of heaven makes you think that the government is trying
to propagate NSA's better stuff? The whole idea behind Clipper is to make
communications pseudo-secure, not absolutely secure. Aside from the fact that
the secrecy of the algorithm makes good intent highly questionable, the whole
Clipper approach is totally unnecessary *if* the goal is real security. RSA
both works and has been publicly analyzed and found solid. If the government is
trying to enhance security, it could propose that its key escrow system be used
with that, rather than this mystical newcomer. There is nothing in this
proposal that is not aimed primarily at defeating security, and there is good
reason to suspect that NSA or some other bunch of spooks can break Clipper-
coded documents using only their knowledge of Clipper and your public key.
 
    I'm not impressed with the social urgency arguments for key escrow, FBI
pre-taps on the telephone network, or any other authoritarian approaches to
"protecting" society. I can imagine how the colonial settlers would have
received the following modest proposal:
 
   "My fellow ex-Britains. The rest of the founding fathers and I have
determined that to properly conduct the Revolutionary War, we must have good
intelligence on the Tory spies among us. Some of our greatest triumphs have
come when we have overheard people plotting in taverns, but now they are
conducting their business behind the thick log walls of private buildings and
we can no longer hear them. To guard against this clear threat to our
fledgling confederation, we must have the ability to eavesdrop on any private
communications without detection. We are proposing that all citizens must
install ear trumpets in every room of every building under their control. These
ear trumpets will be connected to central listening rooms where they can be
monitored by the village wardens. Your privacy will be protected, in that we
will put corks in the listening end, and only remove them to listen when a
magistrate so orders, or in a few other cases we'll tell you about later. This
is a small price to pay for the success of our revolution."
 
     Had dear old George marched over to T. Jefferson with this proposal and
told him to start installing, how long do you think it would have taken before
Tom had his knuckles full of denture splinters?
 
     Trusting a government, even the greatest and most humanitarian govenrment
the world has ever seen (which I firmly believe is a good description of the
US), not to abuse such tempting powers is an exercise for fools. Some twit is
always ready with a drug menace or Communist or some other bogeyman to justify
abridging the rights of society. Clipper isn't wrong for technical reasons;
it is wrong because its fundamental premise is bogus, and its abuse potential
is horrific. It must be opposed by every thinking American who believes that
a right to private communication is fundamental to preserving democracy.
 
Mountain William
