Newsgroups: alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!swrinde!gatech!hubcap!ncrcae!ncrhub2!ncrgw2.ncr.com!psinntp!uuneo!sugar!georgel
From: georgel@NeoSoft.com (George Livsey)
Subject: Re: Cryptographic Resume / Credentials of Dorothy Denning
Organization: NeoSoft Communications Services -- (713) 684-5900
Date: Wed, 9 Jun 1993 15:45:45 GMT
Message-ID: <C8D2GB.Crv@sugar.NeoSoft.COM>
Summary: Cryptographic credentials?  How about DHB ( decent human being) credentials?
References: <MJOHNSON.93Jun8061659@netcom4.Netcom.COM> <tcmayC8BnC4.Gws@netcom.com>
Lines: 42
Xref: msuinfo alt.privacy.clipper:637 sci.crypt:16961

 
 Ms. Denning does have good cryptography credentials.  She is a published
authority in that field.  We even have the NSA's acknowledgement of her
credentials.  
 
   The problem is that Ms. Denning oversteps the bounds of her competency
when she addresses matters concerning Constitutional Law, ethics, and
morality.  Decent people do not eavesdrop.  Intelligence Agencies
sometimes must do immoral and unethical things. Unfortunately, they often
cross their own boundaries and do illegal thing.  Ms. Denning's problem is
that she has been quite vocal about the `legitamate need' for an
intelligence agency to eavesdrop and that therefor, they should be granted
the ability to do so, with or without warrants.  
 
   If Ms. Denning were adressing the technical aspects of implementing a
public key cryptography standard, then we probably should listen. 
However, when she begins to `advise' the Gov't. and the public that they
should or shouldn't `trust' the NSA, we should demand that she justify her
remarks by clearly explaining her relationship to the NSA and her reasons
for trusting them.  It appears that she gains prestige and the ear of
Gov't. officials by mouthing platitudes they want everyone to hear, in
hopes that they might trust her more than `official channels'.
 
   The question is quite simple Ms. Denning.  What are your
Constitutional Law qualifications and your qualifications as a
moralist/ethicist?  If you claim to have none, then why do you not clearly
state that you have none, instead of sanctimoniously `rushing in where
Angels fear to tread'?   
 
   We all have a stake in the outcome of the Clipper "proposal". 
Certainly, Ms. Denning has the right, and the responsibility to speak out.
However, it is abhorrent to see a recognized authority in one field,
taking the license to speak as an authority on a subject which surpasses
his or her competency.  
 


-- 
georgel@NeoSoft.com   |                        
George Livsey         |           Visualize Whirrled Peas!           
Net's Worth           |                        
(713) 994-0447
