Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!transfer.stratus.com!ellisun.sw.stratus.com!cme
From: cme@ellisun.sw.stratus.com (Carl Ellison)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper
Subject: re. Denning's thoughts re: Clipper
Date: 10 Jun 1993 08:07:30 GMT
Organization: Stratus Computer, Software Engineering
Lines: 90
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <1v6q42$s5@transfer.stratus.com>
References: <Jun08.055355.35327@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU> <1993Jun8.142630.4113@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: ellisun.sw.stratus.com
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:16979 alt.privacy.clipper:658

In article <1993Jun8.142630.4113@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu> denning@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu writes:
>If the Clipper Chip
>is brought out in products relatively soon, then there is the 
>opportunity for the market to answer many of the questions, and do
>so better than just analysis (of course you want analysis too,
>but often it's hard to predict how something will go over without
>trying it).

If the Clipper chip is used by the public, then it establishes a precedent
suggesting that the public accepts key registration.  This should not be
allowed to occur before the public at large has heard as much about the
dangers of key registration (both from criminal access to the keys and from
loss of privacy rights to the gov't) as we on sci.crypt have heard.

Meanwhile, before the Clipper is introduced in public products, the public
should be allowed to buy DES-encrypted cellular and wireless phones using
totally secret keys but encrypting only the broadcast portion of the call
-- so that the FBI's right to tap wires is left undisturbed, keeping the
FBI totally happy, while there is no suggestion of key registration to
threaten to weaken our existing right to keep keys secret and, more
generally, to attempt to keep secrets from the government.

>  Plus the government wants the AT&T phones to use -- 
>shouldn't they be allowed to?

Of course.  The gov't can buy any kind of NSA-designed equipment and always
could.  If AT&T is stopped in Clipper, the gov't can buy STU-III (sp?)  or
Cylink phones.  If the gov't needs the wiretap port, then it can make a
special purchase.  [Come to think of it, it might be good for the NSC and
CIA to use encryption with wiretaps funnelled to Congress and Congress
holding the skeleton keys, after Iran-Contra.]

>Another reason for 
>bringing Clipper to market is that it could be too late to do anything 
>at all about the law enforcement needs if telephone security devices such
>as the AT&T device come to market and take off using something like DES.

Yes -- precisely.  The so-called "law enforcement needs" are what is at
issue here.  I don't believe that law enforcement has any rights to my keys
and I'm prepared to defend that position publicly and loudly, as long as I
live.

>Even though I believe the chip should go forward, I also believe
>that we will be debating the issues and considering alternative
>policies & technical approaches for the indefinite future.  The only 
>thing that I can think of that might stop the debate would be a national 
>decision to stop all controls on crypto technology.  This would be a 
>giant leap from where we are now, so don't hold your breadth :-)

I  won't hold my breath -- but I will certainly hope for a more reasonable
alternative.

I don't want controls lifted from Government cryptography.

I want the NSA to keep its secrets.

I want the government to recognize three classes of cryptography which can
not be distinguished by strength (because the one-time-pad is the strongest
system possible and it's fully in the public domain, for example).

1.	munitions: (subject to ITAR and controlled by State)

	crypto gear in hardened embodiments, for battlefield use
or
	crypto gear using secret NSA (or 3rd party, gov't classified)
	algorithms

2.	commercial: (controlled by Commerce)

	crypto gear using algorithms developed by the private sector (and
	maybe kept trade-secret by them but not gov't classified), for
	use by the private sector

3.	free: (uncontrolled)

	crypto gear or S/W using algorithms which have been fully published
	and which are available around the world.  These include all uses
	of DES, RSA, DH, IDEA, one-time-pad, Hill's matrix, transposition,
	stream ciphers using PRNGs, combinations of the above, etc.

Anything else would be irrational -- and we don't want our government to
pass irrational laws, do we?

(not a joke.  I don't.)

-- 
 - <<Disclaimer: All opinions expressed are my own, of course.>>
 - Carl Ellison                                        cme@sw.stratus.com
 - Stratus Computer Inc.       M3-2-BKW                TEL: (508)460-2783
 - 55 Fairbanks Boulevard ; Marlborough MA 01752-1298  FAX: (508)624-7488
