Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!uwm.edu!biosci!oracle!unrepliable!bounce
From: cdupree@oracle (Chuck Dupree)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper,alt.society.civil-liberty,alt.society.resistance,alt.privacy,comp.org.eff.talk
Subject: Clipper, NSA, Trust: The Core of the Matter?
Message-ID: <CDUPREE.93Jun10121056@bruins.oracle>
Date: 10 Jun 93 20:10:56 GMT
Sender: usenet@oracle.us.oracle.com (Oracle News Poster)
Distribution: alt
Organization: Oracle Corporation, Belmont, Ca.
Lines: 98
Nntp-Posting-Host: bruins.us.oracle.com
X-Disclaimer: This message was written by an unauthenticated user
              at Oracle Corporation.  The opinions expressed are those
              of the user and not necessarily those of Oracle.
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:17008 alt.privacy.clipper:683 alt.society.civil-liberty:9754 alt.society.resistance:90 alt.privacy:7250 comp.org.eff.talk:18387

David Sternlight writes (in article <strnlghtC8DBzD.4wE@netcom.com>) : 

   Let me cut right through here to the core of SOME of the disagreements about
   Clipper. I consider it to be MY government, and I trust it a la Mark Twain's
   "Trust everybody and always cut the cards." Thus I take at face value the
   government's implied statement that alternatives known publicly aren't
   secure and clipper is. Others may disagree, or at least raise questions, as
   is their right.

   Given my assumptions, the problem becomes preventing the bad guys from
   getting really secure communications. Hence the secrecy of the algorithm,
   the protection of the chip, and the key escrow with court order.

It seems to me that David has stated his case quite clearly here, and
I completely agree with him when he says that the core of many
disagreements is whether you trust the U.S. government, and in
particular the NSA.  I don't, so my final conclusion is different from
his.  Nevertheless, this issue seems to me to be so important that no
other issue is on my list.

In fact, at this point I don't see what other issue there could be,
except for the question of whether NSA is really as far ahead of the
rest of the world as it likes people to think.  If you trust the
government as David does, then isn't it merely a question of whether
NSA has done a good job of picking a new encryption standard?  Of
course, this could only be determined by a panel of experts with
relevant security clearances, because anything NSA proposes is
presumably beyond public ideas of state-of-the-art.  And of course
those experts wouldn't be trusted by people who didn't trust
government to begin with, because they would have to be picked by the
intelligence community.  And they wouldn't really be able to say much
about why they were convinced, anyway; at some point, it seems to me,
it comes down to trust.  Are there really technical issues involved
here, apart from the question of whether you trust the government?

On the other hand, if you do trust the government, how do you explain
the apparent fact (according to recent postings) that Congress made a
strong attempt to prevent the NSA from having anything to do with the
domestic encryption program that produced Clipper?  Or am I
misunderstanding those posts?

Personally, I don't trust the government in this situation; not just
because governments have always dissembled, but specifically because
the NSA, in its current form, is a very dangerous agency without any
meaningful oversight, and with a history of spying on U.S. citizens
using methods that, at the very least, border on illegality (for
instance, they would have been illegal if used by the FBI).  I'm in
the process of writing an article detailing my objections to Clipper.
In a recent mail conversation describing this article, I noted what
seem to be the critical facts about NSA, which are listed below.  They
lead to the conclusions that I'll be stating in the article, among
which is the belief that it would be folly to allow the NSA to
supervise and mandate encryption technologies for anyone outside the
U.S. government.

I would be happy to hear of factual or logical errors involved in the
following items.  Please, if you wish to dispute the facts, include
the sources of your information, as I am attempting to ensure that my
article and my conclusions are based on the facts as I can ascertain
and attribute them.  Thanks!

- Chuck Dupree
  Sr. Technical Writer
  Oracle Corporation (which probably completely disagrees 
    with the opinions expressed in this posting :-)


- the NSA was created by still-classified Executive order and
chartered by still-classified directive of the National Security
Council; it is thus responsible only to the President and the NSC, who
can change its charter at any time without the knowledge of anyone
outside the intelligence community

- its charter and some other laws (such as the COMINT statute,
sometimes known as the U.S. version of the British Official Secrets
act; Public Las 86-36; the 1968 Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets
Act; etc.) appear to allow it to disregard anything but a direct order
from the President or NSC specifically including NSA and the action
involved; it can apparently disregard any law directed to the
government or intelligence community in general, and it is
specifically exempted from being forced to reveal anything about
itself, even in court

- NSA's budget is entirely "black;" that is, Congress authorizes the
entire budget of NSA, estimated in 1990 at $10 billion, without
knowledge of the amount allocated or the purposes for which the funds
will be used (these funds are hidden in arbitrary areas of the budget,
with the result that Congress can never be sure how much is allocated
to anything)

- NSA has in the past spied on American citizens in actions which
would be illegal if performed by the CIA or the FBI (the most
extensive example was Project Shamrock, which went on for thirty
years); for many years it has had the capability to intercept
practically all telephone and telegraph communications to, from, or
within the U.S., and on occasion it has turned this capability against
political targets, especially in the Nixon administration but by many
others as well
