Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!purdue!yuma!ld231782
From: ld231782@LANCE.ColoState.Edu (L. Detweiler)
Subject: Critical Review: _Puzzle_Palace_ and Clipper
Sender: news@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU (News Account)
Message-ID: <Jun11.091647.89479@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU>
Date: Fri, 11 Jun 1993 09:16:47 GMT
Nntp-Posting-Host: traver.lance.colostate.edu
Organization: Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO  80523
Lines: 249


From: Mike Tighe <tighe@convex.COM>
>Sigh.  The only thing more pathetic than blind zealotry for the Government
>is equally blind faith in the media.  After all, they wouldn't print it if
>it wasn't true right? OK.  I will play.  Bamford's book has two problems.
>1) It is out-of-date, 2) It is factually incorrect.

Its becoming increasingly easy to identify the lurking-gone-loud spooks
(or maybe just the wannabe's) around here. I speculate they are a direct
response to the hostility that has been throbbing through the Internet on 
Clipper.  They leave me at the same time deeply chagrined, exasperated, and 
inspired, all of course classically conducive to a sharp increase in electronic 
verbiage.

Ever since reading it I've been thinking about the possibility of condensing 
_Puzzle_Palace_ into a FAQ, but unfortunately currently don't have the time or 
incentive. I think the rants in the email responses to such a reference would 
surely be quite fascinating, however, making such a project all the more 
appealing. Does anyone think we could get a newsgroup dedicated to the NSA 
going? I promise to write a FAQ if someone else manages the electronic 
paperwork on the creation.

For now, the following will have to suffice.

- - -

An Amateur Critical Review: _The_Puzzle_Palace_ in the 90's

Most of the obvious trends identified in _The_Puzzle_Palace_ by Bamford can be 
simply magnified to reach a reasonable estimate of the current NSA capabilities 
and directions.  By basic bureacratic interpolation, we just have the case that 
they are using larger and faster computers, larger networks, more personel, and 
more money to do essentially the same job: spy on international communications. 
 The things that have diminished at the NSA are its capability to read 
electronic traffic and the ostensible reasons to continue doing so. Even 
Bamford notes that their cryptographic conquests of Soviet traffic were drying 
(the book was copyrighted in 1980).

However, with the proliferation of strong cryptography and mounting commercial 
assaults from intolerable export policies, it is their own success that has 
plummeted dramatically to the point that they find it necessary to find new 
areas to clutch desperately at to justify their existence and gluttonous black 
budgets in the post-Cold-War era to the point of embracing an expansionist, 
imperialistic plan that enviously eyes *domestic* cryptography.  As the basic 
CPSR FOIA information and commentary makes transparently clear, they have no 
legal standing to do so whatsoever---nor, in my opinion, never until 1984 will 
NSA or any other hypothetical agency gain such dangerous and treacherous 
authority from sensible Americans.

Today, as Bamford presciently and clairvoyantly pinpoints in his final 
chapters, NSA is a bureacracy haunted by computational and technological 
innovation, and besieged by incredible breakthroughs, advances, even 
*revolutions* in *commercial* cryptography and digital communication (e.g., 
RSA) despite the puerile and obnoxious rants by its more prominent and arrogant 
representatives asserting that cryptography itself is not the proper domain of 
the private sector, with the implicit presumption that NSA is the sole 
monopolistic proprietor worldwide (this is because, for many decades, it 
*was*).

>But since almost all traffic that would use Clipper is currently cleartext,
>how is using Clipper bad? The Government already can monitor it right now,
>real easy. 

Giving him the benefit of the doubt and taking the nonconspirational 
interpretation, Mr. Tighe appears either to be intentionally obtuse or naive.  
Clipper is a desperate attempt to gain domestic cryptographic authority by 
surreptitious subversion if not by legislation: subversion of accepted and 
recognized national standards-making procedures and the congressional 
intentions of NIST, subversion of the laws restricting their domain to foreign 
surveillance, subversion of accountability to Congress and the American 
populace.  And, there is every possibility, given the sheer mounting panic of 
the NSA over its endangerment and erosion of power, and its propensity for 
official disingenuity if not outright duplicity, that this argument is the 
ultimate in hypocrisy: the NSA could be in the most favorable position, and 
very conceivably be planning, to enforce Clipper as a standard by legislation 
*precisely* if it were widely accepted, because after all (as the official 
announcement will state), `only criminals are using the alternative 
cryptography'.

Because Clipper has been denounced and ridiculed spectacularly by the most 
prominent engineers, businessmen, researchers, experts, and analysts in diverse 
technological fields in the U.S. and elsewhere, the NSA may have only one other 
option in pursuing its paramount goal: attempting to gain legislation tacitly 
or explicitly allowing, permitting, or promoting them a domestic role in U.S. 
commercial cryptography.

- - -

Bamford's work is one of the most painstakingly and meticulously researched 
books in all of cryptography, perhaps second only to Kahn's encyclopediac 
historical treatment (coincidentally to this article, both that author and book 
were trashed by a prominent NSA director as reported by Bamford because of his 
blasphemy of including a chapter on the agency).  The prose and footnotes of 
_Puzzle_Place_ are both in excruciating detail, the latter of which span for 
dozens of dozens of pages, essentially more than a chapter in themself.  
Bamford has a footnote for virtually every paragraph and some which match up 
with sequential sentences and phrases.

The documentation on some of the most critical subjects comes from impeccable 
sources such as Congressional inquiries and testimony, the papers and letters 
of past directors, interviews with internal employees and outside experts (both 
cited and uncited) perhaps numbering in the hundreds.  He also has a clear 
appreciation for New York Times reporting and articles (many of which were 
crucial in the groundwork investigations and revelations that directly led to 
Congressional inquiries).  Bamford also appears to have travelled all over the 
world to visit NSA radio installations and interception stations. He describes 
in vivid detail sites in Australia, Britain, and all over the U.S.  These and 
his extensive travels to archives and libraries around the world probably 
amounted to an exceedingly costly not necessarily covered by an advance (e.g., 
representing a personal investment).  He even used NSA newsletters, which are 
supposedly supposed to be destroyed after reading from the sensitive 
information they contain (like the names of the NSA softball teams?).  Overall, 
the sources are of impressive, crystal, sterling caliber.

Of course, minor inaccuracies must creep into any work of such magnitude, 
particularly in the case of this exceedingly slippery, invisible, and 
uncooperative subject (to say the least).  Never before has anything so massive 
and costly been so paranoidly and uniformly concealed.  In some ways, the book 
is a great tribute to the dogged and tenacious investigative persistence of 
Bamford, who like Kahn clearly has an unstoppable vision and idealism in 
pursuing his quarry.  I'm sure that Bamford could easily fill another book with 
all the pervasive and extensive obstacles he had to overcome in piecing his 
coherent mosaic from nothing but the most evasive and convoluted threads 
imaginable, and the burdensome obstacles and perhaps even outright intimidation 
by powerful NSA henchmen he encountered on the way (again, the historical 
difficulties of Yardley and Kahn are direct evidence for the existence of the 
latter).

These reasons all attest to Bamford's excellent reliability and fanatic 
impartiality.  But nevertheless I believe in some ways Bamford is very 
fascinated, enamored, and allured by his target, and paints a surprisingly 
*favorable* overall image of the agency (early chapters describe its 
complicated chronological bureacratic contortions in excruciating detail). The 
title itself, and various treatments within, suggest a sort of magical 
mesmerizing mystery.  Bamford only lets down his guarded aloofness, and 
understandably so, in the outraged descriptions of the heinous massacre on the 
Liberty that left blood on the hands of the NSA _in_absentia_.

Anyone who believes the book has serious inaccuracies that largely distort the 
overall picture of the NSA is probably working for the NSA itself. Given the 
sheer laborious work, the Herculean research and documentation laid bare for 
anyone to scrutinize, and historical tendency of members in the agency for 
almost religious submission and demeaning attacks on anyone who even dares 
whisper their Palace's name, this is not a controversial statement.  Those that 
have problems with particular passages in the book must necessarily reveal 
their discontent or displeasure with the original sources from the footnotes, 
or identify Bamford's misinterpretation. So far, no one has come forward.

- - -

Again, Mike Tighe <tighe@convex.COM>:

>what allegedly may have happened in the 1960's or 1970's
>has no bearing on what is or may happen in the 1990's.  The agency has
>different employees, different leadership, and different rules under which
>it operates.

First of all, Bamford's documentations of the abuses on American monitoring are 
terrifyingly incomplete with gaps of many years transpiring between known 
incidents. The problem is not that they are incorrect accounts but that they 
are nerve-wrackingly vivid---and necessarily only *partial*.  We have a 
disturbing picture through many windows of the scene.  From the book one gleans 
the exceedingly uneasy suspicion that it was only dumb luck that caused many of 
these queasy revelations of black machinations to surface. That is, they were 
exposed not through mechanisms designed to ensure accountability in the agency, 
but by *accident* and *departures* from stated policy (for example, we were 
told by defectors that they spy on our allies, later confirmed).

From these accounts, one even gets the impression that there is an inherent 
phenomenon of `exposure lag' of approximately a decade in uncovering abuses in 
the agency. This is arguably the historical case with Congressional inquiries 
into e.g. Shamrock and other abuses.  The facts came completely to light only 
many years after the abuses took place. The reason for this inherent time delay 
is obvious.  The machinations are so tightly concealed that it takes many years 
and combinations of individual troubled consciences to supply the revelations 
necessary for larger attention. (Under the oppressive atmosphere of secrecy it 
is a wonder we know anything about the NSA's crimes, and it is a tribute to the 
sheer tenacity and noble sacrifices of others we know what we do.)

That is, according to this schedule, we are due for disturbing revelations of 
subversive and quasi-legal actions by the NSA in the 80's.  Clipper fits into 
this category!  The U.S. is in desperate need of successors to Bamford and new 
parties in the long line of anonymous sources with troubled insomnia inside and 
outside of the agency to come forward to uncover the rest.  (Interestingly, Mr. 
Tighe does not mention the 80's in referring to `[abuses that] allegedly may 
have happened' at the NSA.  He does mention the 90's, and by the timetable we 
should hear about those in the next century. I and many others eagerly and 
impatiently await them.)

Second of all, I encourage Mr. Tighe to cite the specific `different employees, 
different leadership, different rules under which [NSA] operates' that make 
abuses impossible.  This is largely a rhetorical question on my part, because 
for me the existence of Clipper and the grotesque subversions it represents are 
ample proof of the obvious: NSA today is not fundamentally different from the 
picture Bamford constructs in his epochal work, except in ways that are more 
malicious and dangerous to the preservation of the resources and rights of 
American citizenry.

- - -

Now I return to a few of the claims of Mike Tighe <tighe@convex.COM> on the 
possibility of discrediting factual incorrectness in Bamford's work, which 
taken together are shockingly and comically trivial.

>Error #1: Just where exactly, is Chippewa Falls, Minnesota?

Unfortunately, I'm not an expert on obscure geography. If Mr. Tighe cannot find 
it in his atlas I suggest two possibilities: (1) it is too small to be on the 
map (2) it is a NSA code name for an actual Minnesota location (3) Bamford may 
have made a minor transcription error but still describes a site that exists.

>Error #2: According to "Gambling on the New Frontier", Cray Channels, Fall
>1986, page 20, Los Alamos National Laboratory received the first Cray-1 in
>March of 1976.

This is absolutely absurd if Mr. Tighe believes that the supercomputational 
power of the NSA is not one of its most closely guarded secrets, and therefore 
the most susceptible to third-party reports of misinformation regarding it, 
either unknowingly or conspirationally on the part of the outlet.

>Error #3: As far as I know IDA/CRD is not associated with Princeton
>University.  They are merely located in Princeton, New Jersey.

When your own research and certainty surpasses that of Mr. Bamford's please 
report back to us (that is, if anybody around still cares about such an 
egregious inaccuracy).

Now, Mr. Tighe will tell us the airtight resoning by which these three 
particular instances from a paragraph on page 136 noted above completely and 
overwhelmingly discredit the whole work as an authoritative reference on the 
underlying structure and history of the NSA:

>If he cannot get the simple things correct,
>he loses all credibility for the more difficult to verify claims he makes.

This is clearly Mr. Tighe's fundamental premise (not only that `simple' 
inaccuracies are present, but that they are critical to the overall veracity of 
the monolithic tome) which neither I, nor hopefully the gentle reader, for the 
multitudinous reasons I have put forth above, subscribe to.  In conclusion, I 
commend, and sympathize with, Bamford for his tremendously valuable, but likely 
exceedingly lonely or even uncomfortably dangerous, literary endeavor and 
pursuit of truth that foreshadows one of the most critical and enduring stories 
of the 20th century: that between the American public, our technology, our 
branches of government---and the NSA.


--

ld231782@longs.LANCE.ColoState.EDU
