Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!uchinews!cs.umd.edu!mimsy!pugh
From: pugh@cs.umd.edu (Bill Pugh)
Newsgroups: alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Subject: Implementing a key escrow system
Message-ID: <68376@mimsy.umd.edu>
Date: 11 Jun 93 14:19:21 GMT
Sender: news@mimsy.umd.edu
Followup-To: alt.privacy.clipper
Organization: U of Maryland, Dept. of Computer Science, Coll. Pk., MD 20742
Lines: 59
Xref: msuinfo alt.privacy.clipper:720 sci.crypt:17050


I don't like the Clipper, and don't think it will succeed. However, on the 
chance that we get stuck with it, we should figure out ways to solve many 
of the concerns people have raised.

A lot of people have concerns about the key escrow system. There are 
good reasons to be worried about a system in which the government can
get a court order to decode your communications. But an even greater
concern to many people is how to make sure that key disclosure is limited
to lawfully authorized cases.

Here is a proposal that addresses that issue.


The keys will not be kept in a computer file, except for
a limited time during manufacture. Instead, a printed record
will be used to store the keys. The printed record should 
be coated with something like what is used in the instant lottery
games (probably a higher-tech version). 

The advantages of this scheme: 

	* If anybody gets access to a key, an audit will
	  turn up the access.

	* The awkward nature of obtaining a key will make it
	  difficult and time consuming for anyone to obtain
	  massive numbers of keys. 

We would also need to work out how to prevent someone from 
stealing an entire page or book of keys (and possibly 
substituting a phony one). 

One way to make this less of a problem is to ensure that
the two halves of the key are broken down into books/pages
with different schemes. This way, stealing 1 book from one 
agency and 1 book from the other agency would yield only
a few keys.

Another point: I think the government should be required to
renew a wiretap frequently. If the government cannot get a
judge's permission to renew the wiretap, the government _must_
publish the fact that the key has been compromised and
should not be used. I would think a renewal period of not more
than 3-6 months would be appropriate.


Of course, it would be possible to establish an audit trail within
an on-line database of escrowed keys. But I would find it harder to 
trust such a system. I would also not feel comfortable with the 
idea that somebody might, in case of "national emergency",
be able to get a immediate, complete core dump of all the keys.

	William Pugh
	Dept. of Computer Science
	Univ of Maryland, College Park
	pugh@cs.umd.edu


