Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!torn!nott!bnrgate!bnr.co.uk!uknet!pavo.csi.cam.ac.uk!rja14
From: rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (Ross Anderson)
Subject: International key escrow
Message-ID: <1993Jun11.175729.7194@infodev.cam.ac.uk>
Sender: news@infodev.cam.ac.uk (USENET news)
Nntp-Posting-Host: ely.cl.cam.ac.uk
Organization: U of Cambridge Computer Lab, UK
Date: Fri, 11 Jun 1993 17:57:29 GMT
Lines: 102

At Eurocrypt 93 a few weeks ago, the NSA's technical director said that the
key escrow system was still `vaporware' and that they had no objection to
interested parties getting involved in the design, to make sure that it was
`whiter than white'.

Here's my twopenceworth: you can in fact make an escrow system which will be
goood enough to silence all or most of the reasonable objections, and here is
how to do it.

1. The International Problem.

At present, a number of governments (including those of some fairly major
countries such as France) won't let clipperphones in. This is not unreasonable - 
what would the FBI think of a system which the Russian security service could 
tap, but they couldn't?

However if clipper is restricted to the US, it will lose a lot of its value. 
The bad guys such as the Mafia and the various terrorist groups will just 
buy their communications systems in Europe or the Far East. Indeed, respectable
US corporations may end up buying their kit there as this is the only way in 
which they can get the same kind of scrambler phone in each of their offices.

The US government could always just ban non-Clipper encryption outright, 
though I don't think this will be practical, due to the installed base of DES
in the banking world and the number of software products which use some form of
crypto or other. The only other way I can see is an international escrow system.

What this would mean in practice is that I could register three shadows of my 
secret key with agencies in three different jurisdictions, and the secret
itself could only be reconstructed from all three. Desmedt and Frankel showed
how to do this at Crypto 89 (I think). So in order to read my traffic, the FBI
would have to get not one warrant but three.

The reason that I would find this acceptable is that I could choose the three 
agencies in such a way as to reflect my own security concerns.

For example, tax evasion is not a crime in Switzerland, but a mere civil 
matter. So by putting one of my key shadows in Zurich, I place my traffic
absolutely beyond the reach of the insector of taxes.

If I were a left-wing activist and thought I might have trouble with Special 
Branch at some time, then I could place a shadow in Australia, as the High 
Court there showed that they were quite capable of standing up to the UK 
security services in the `Spycatcher' affair. 

If I were a Sinn Fein supporter, I would probably put a component in Dublin; 
and if smoking dope were among my vices, I would put a component in Holland, 
where it's not a crime.

Whatever my legitimate security concerns, I would be able to find some
combination of governments such that not all of them would betray me to the
same opponent at the same time.


2. The Easy Judge Problem.

The second problem is that if a system is never subjected to strong external 
audit,  by people who're alert and eager to find abuses, then it will 
certainly be abused sooner or later. Here I'm not so much concerned with 
trapdoors in the algorithm or unauthorised access to the escrow database, as 
with the fact that some judges will be `easier' than others when it comes to 
granting warrants. Even with an international system, it would not take too 
long for the FBI to cultivate an easy judge in every relevant country.

It is also to be expected that certain groups will feel themselves to be the 
victims of discrimination. For example, in England the police perceive (rightly 
or not) that young men of Caribbean origin are more likely than white men to be 
involved in selling marijuana, and we have had several riots which resulted 
from a feeling among the Caribbean community that the police were 
discriminating against them, by repeatedly stopping and searching them on 
suspicions which were based on race rather than on any material facts.

Similar concerns may be felt by Irish immigrants in the context of terrorist
investigations, and by other ethnic and religious minorities in many other
countries.

The solution to this, whether in a national or international context, is to
publish all warrants after a delay of one year. This would make clear whose
communications were being intercepted and why, and would let civil rights 
groups detect and react to any abuses.

Some police forces are used to dragging out investigations over a decade and
might object. However, in Scotland the police are only allowed 110 days after
arresting someone to get a conviction, and the system works fine. Policemen,
and even lawyers, can get a move on if they have to.

In fact, a senior policeman was complaining to us only a few weeks ago that
only a very small number of interception warrants were ever issued, and that
the whole paranoia thing was got up out of all proportion by activists. Very
well: let's have the details! If court hearings should in priciple be public,
then this principle should also apply to applications for wiretap warrants.


The big question of course is whether the Agency would be happy with an escrow 
system which really worked, on top of algorithms which were really hard to break 
and were implemented well. Perhaps the object of the current exercise is simply 
to sow fear, uncertainty and doubt, and thus postpone the uptake of crypto in 
the commercial sector,


Ross
 
