Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!caen!nic.umass.edu!noc.near.net!das-news.harvard.edu!husc-news.harvard.edu!zariski!kubo
Newsgroups: alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt,sci.skeptic
Subject: Assumptions about NSA Capabilities
Message-ID: <1993Jun12.004355.24886@husc3.harvard.edu>
From: kubo@zariski.harvard.edu (Tal Kubo)
Date: 12 Jun 93 00:43:54 EDT
Organization: Dept. of Math, Harvard Univ.
Nntp-Posting-Host: zariski.harvard.edu
Lines: 50
Xref: msuinfo alt.privacy.clipper:748 sci.crypt:17091 sci.skeptic:46387

In article <strnlghtC8DB45.3so@netcom.com> 
strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:
>
>My working hypothesis, which has yet to be refuted (though there are
>alternative hypotheses), is that the USG realizes that current systems,
>maybe even including triple DES, are NOT secure against particular
>techniques the NSA has developed and which they assume some of our
>adversaries have developed. Thus they spent several years developing
>Clipper, which IS so secure. 

I refuted this working hypothesis a while ago on alt.security.pgp.  My
argument was based on statements that Oleg Gordievsky (former KGB operations
chief in England) made after a speech, to the effect that the KGB was
basically ineffective in decrypting the diplomatic traffic of the NATO
allies during the 1970's and 80's.  To put his statement in perspective,
one should also consider:

  -- the vast manpower and resources of the KGB (certainly comparable to
       NSA's);
  -- the much larger production of mathematicians in the ex-USSR as
       compared to the US, and the much greater power of the Soviet
       government to direct the employment of these people toward the 
       security needs of the state;
  -- that the NSA and other spy agencies employ only a fraction of the
       mathematicians and computer scientists who work openly in
       crypto-related fields (and academia gets most of the top people);
  -- that historically, almost all breakthroughs in mathematics are
       independently rediscovered within a few years or months;
  -- that some of the biggest published breakthroughs in recent years 
       in crypto-related mathematics (e.g. the links between codes and 
       algebraic geometry) originated in the USSR.


Your "unrefuted" working hypothesis stretches the limits of credulity.
You apparently believe that the NSA could singlehandedly achieve the
multiple mathematical breakthroughs needed to effectively crack the current
systems, while the KGB and the open research community remain clueless for
years on end.  Note that your claim about "all current systems" also
implies an implausibly fast response time on NSA's part, whereas in the
non-NSA world it can take years to evaluate, let alone crack, a
cryptosystem.

Do you believe in magic, or can you support your "working hypothesis" with
evidence?  Note that you have often dismissed other peoples' working
hypotheses about Clipper as unsubstantiated paranoia and figments of
imagination, so that a failure to provide such evidence would rightly be
seen as an admission of abject hypocrisy.


Tal  kubo@math.harvard.edu
