Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!PASCAL.ACM.ORG!WARLOCK
From: warlock@PASCAL.ACM.ORG
Subject: Crypto-czar or Cryptosaur - Musings on the Role of Government
Message-ID: <1993Jun12.234215.5381@sol.ctr.columbia.edu>
Sender: nobody@ctr.columbia.edu
Reply-To: warlock@PASCAL.ACM.ORG
Organization: ACM Network Services, Waco, TX
Date: Sat, 12 Jun 1993 23:42:15 GMT
X-Posted-From: acm.org
NNTP-Posting-Host: sol.ctr.columbia.edu
Lines: 53


Crypto-Czar or Cryptosaur -- Musings on the Government's Role in 
Private Sector Security

Wagner's famous opera "Gotterdammerung" is usually translated as 
"Twilight of the Gods".  On occasion, it has been translated as 
"Going into the Dark".  Both translations are relevant to contem
porary cryptography.  Now that 15 plus years have elapsed since 
White Knights Diffie and Hellman liberated the Damsel of Cryptog
raphy from her black chamber -- where she now thrives as 
never before in the worlds of light and dark -- two things are 
clear:  The old gods of cryptography like the elder gods of Greek 
myth (together with their traditional modus operandi and ponder
ous deus ex machina) are all moribund.  But entrenched bureau
cratic habits like elder gods and their shibboleths -- especially 
those so well funded, staffed, and ingrained -- die hard.  Let us 
call this condition "The Twilight of the Gods".  

The second translation "Going into the Dark" describes the inevi
table transition of digital information (assisted by cryptograph-
ic techniques) from insecure or "red" to secure or "black".  The 
day is rapidly approaching when encrypted digital information by 
virtue of sheer volume and the computational complexity of pri
vate sector crypto-innovations will lie beyond the reach of 3-
letter US government agencies and foreign governments elsewhere.

It is cryptosaurian to imagine that the ancien regime can be 
preserved intact when its context is evaporating before one's 
very eyes.  Even worse, it is crypto-czarian to imagine that such 
a preservation can be achieved by intimidation, force, ill-con
ceived and unworkable laws, or combinations thereof.  A better 
compromise and honest give-and-take dialog with the private 
sector (nor found, for example, in the cozy government/Mykotro
nx/AT&T Clipper and Capstone surprise initiative) must be found 
or the Elder Gods -- like it or not -- will find themselves 
staring hopelessly into an impenetrable dark.  And the diligent 
civil servant who spent his sequestered life in their employ on 
rotor wheel #4 will find himself rotating wheels at Firestone.


                             WARLOCK

 

                              WARLOCK


 





