Newsgroups: alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt,sci.skeptic
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!umn.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!nagle
From: nagle@netcom.com (John Nagle)
Subject: Re: Assumptions about NSA Capabilities
Message-ID: <nagleC8KtCC.L0K@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
References: <1993Jun12.004355.24886@husc3.harvard.edu>
Date: Sun, 13 Jun 1993 20:09:48 GMT
Lines: 26
Xref: msuinfo alt.privacy.clipper:767 sci.crypt:17128 sci.skeptic:46436

kubo@zariski.harvard.edu (Tal Kubo) writes:
>I refuted this working hypothesis a while ago on alt.security.pgp.  My
>argument was based on statements that Oleg Gordievsky (former KGB operations
>chief in England) made after a speech, to the effect that the KGB was
>basically ineffective in decrypting the diplomatic traffic of the NATO
>allies during the 1970's and 80's.  

      Note that he's talking about DIPLOMATIC traffic.  Diplomatic traffic
is generally easier to secure than military traffic.  Most diplomatic
traffic is embassy-to-foreign-office.  At both ends, you have a permanent,
physically secured operation, and since the traffic is point-to-point
between established points, you can use techniques that involve large
volumes of keying material, like one-time keys.  Keying material can be
distributed by diplomatic couriers, those guys with the briefcases
chained to their wrists.  That's how the US has done it for some years;
presumably the other NATO countries do something similar.

       Military traffic is much tougher to secure.  Military units move
around, have multiple, changing communications needs, and do much multipoint
transmission.  They don't have fixed, secure facilities in the field, 
have limits on how much stuff they can carry around, and have problems
with systems where you can run out of keying material and need resupply.
So military systems usually can't use one-time key cryptosystems, although
some fixed headquarters may use them to communicate with a higher HQ.

					John Nagle
