Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!das-news.harvard.edu!husc-news.harvard.edu!zariski!kubo
Newsgroups: alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt,sci.skeptic
Subject: Re: Assumptions about NSA Capabilities
Message-ID: <1993Jun13.215551.24928@husc3.harvard.edu>
From: kubo@zariski.harvard.edu (Tal Kubo)
Date: 13 Jun 93 21:55:51 EDT
References: <1993Jun12.004355.24886@husc3.harvard.edu> <strnlghtC8JrwE.3rE@netcom.com>
Organization: Dept. of Math, Harvard Univ.
Nntp-Posting-Host: zariski.harvard.edu
Lines: 35
Xref: msuinfo alt.privacy.clipper:772 sci.crypt:17133 sci.skeptic:46444

In article <strnlghtC8JrwE.3rE@netcom.com> 
strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:
>
>No you didn't. You don't think for a moment that NATO used DES or other
>civilian public systems for their traffic. More likely they use a version of
>Clipper's algorithmic principles or a one-time system. Thus your assertions
>are incorrect and your conclusions wrong.

My statements were a summary of the information in the alt.security.pgp
article, to which I again refer you.  In my discussion with Gordievsky
after his speech, he did not confine his comments to diplomatic traffic: 
he indicated that in general the encrypted communications out of the NATO
countries was not successfully cracked, but he only provided specific
information about the failure to decrypt the diplomatic traffic.

You are still evading the main points:
  1. Whether or not you believe that NSA can do magic, KGB's relative lack
     of success in decryption suggests that your "foreign adversaries
     can crack all existing systems" line is baloney.  Especially with
     schemes where the key size can be selected at will.
  2. The arguments given for comparability of KGB & NSA capabilities, which
     suggest that the NSA can't crack all the current systems either.
  3. Your position assumes an implausibly fast response time on NSA's 
     part (e.g. to new schemes like IDEA), an assumption which has yet to
     be justified.
  4. You have not provided even a shred of evidence for your faith in
     the ability of NSA (let alone foreign adversaries) to decrypt all 
     current systems.  What, other than boundless faith in our government
     agencies, makes you believe they can do this? Having been unable to
     offer any evidence for your "working hypothesis", where do you find
     the gall to label the working hypotheses of others as unsubstantiated
     paranoid speculations? 

Tal  kubo@math.harvard.edu

