Newsgroups: alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt,sci.skeptic
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!sdd.hp.com!saimiri.primate.wisc.edu!relay!xobu!trooker
From: trooker@xobu (T. Rooker)
Subject: Re: Assumptions about NSA Capabilities
Message-ID: <1993Jun14.110852.4321@relay.nswc.navy.mil>
Sender: news@relay.nswc.navy.mil
Organization: Naval Surface Warfare Center
X-Newsreader: Tin 1.1 PL4
References: <1993Jun12.004355.24886@husc3.harvard.edu>
Date: Mon, 14 Jun 1993 11:08:52 GMT
Lines: 63
Xref: msuinfo alt.privacy.clipper:782 sci.crypt:17144 sci.skeptic:46461

kubo@zariski.harvard.edu (Tal Kubo) writes:
: 
: I refuted this working hypothesis a while ago on alt.security.pgp.  My
: argument was based on statements that Oleg Gordievsky (former KGB operations
: chief in England) made after a speech, to the effect that the KGB was
: basically ineffective in decrypting the diplomatic traffic of the NATO
: allies during the 1970's and 80's.  To put his statement in perspective,
: one should also consider:
:

Actually one must put your statements in perspective.  Since your premises
are flawed one must question your conclusions.
 
:   -- the vast manpower and resources of the KGB (certainly comparable to
:        NSA's);

It depends upon HOW those resources are used.  The KGB is a mix of the
CIA, NSA, FBI, and possibly others.  The NSA's primary purpose is crypto and 
COMSEC.

:   -- the much larger production of mathematicians in the ex-USSR as
:        compared to the US, and the much greater power of the Soviet
:        government to direct the employment of these people toward the 
:        security needs of the state;

This larger production involves theoretical mathematicians.  At some time
engineering expertise is required to develop workable systems, and in this
area the West is usually considered to have the lead.

:   -- that the NSA and other spy agencies employ only a fraction of the
:        mathematicians and computer scientists who work openly in
:        crypto-related fields (and academia gets most of the top people);

Again you confuse brute force manpower with focused effort.  People working
within the NSA appear to have a consider advantage [see my next comment].

:   -- that historically, almost all breakthroughs in mathematics are
:        independently rediscovered within a few years or months;

This observation is based on Newton's "... shoulders of giants..." comment.
This rediscovery occurs because foundations are laid that multiple people
can build on.  If there is an open communication of preliminary results, it
would be MORE suprising if this rediscovery did not happen.  The NSA disrupts
this process by classifying these intermediate results.  Look at some
of the recently declassified documents (check an Aegean Park Press catalog).
Many date from the 1950's!  Much of the work required for these rediscoveries
is simply not available outside the NSA.

:   -- that some of the biggest published breakthroughs in recent years 
:        in crypto-related mathematics (e.g. the links between codes and 
:        algebraic geometry) originated in the USSR.
 
So what?  Again there is a need for engineerin expertise to develop real
systems.  Again there is vail of secrecy around the NSA.  Even though
differential cryptanalysis has only recently become well known, the IBM
designers of DES knew aobut it when DES was designed, and that was in a
large corporation without benefit of military classification.  Who knows
how many such results are available inside the NSA?  Assuming there are 
(were?) at least current with IBM, then they would be 10-15 years ahead of
the open literature.  Of course the NSA is also a large bureacracy, and 
overcomming the bureacratic inertia to exploit any such advantage might 
cancel the lead, but htis is not the forum for that discussion.

