Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!darwin.sura.net!udel!news.intercon.com!usenet
From: amanda@intercon.com (Amanda Walker)
Newsgroups: alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt,sci.skeptic
Subject: Re: Assumptions about NSA Capabilities
Date: Mon, 14 Jun 1993 11:48:20 -0500
Organization: A poorly-installed InterNetNews site
Lines: 31
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <1vi6kb$p0p@news.intercon.com>
References: <strnlghtC8JrwE.3rE@netcom.com>
Reply-To: amanda@intercon.com (Amanda Walker)
NNTP-Posting-Host: chaos.intercon.com
X-Newsreader: InterCon TCP/Connect II 1.1
Xref: msuinfo alt.privacy.clipper:789 sci.crypt:17157 sci.skeptic:46475

strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:
> No you didn't. You don't think for a moment that NATO used DES or other 
> civilian public systems for their traffic. More likely they use a 
> version of Clipper's algorithmic principles or a one-time system. Thus 
> your assertions are incorrect and your conclusions wrong. 

Oh, come now.

Diplomatic communication by any first- or second-world country (and, no 
doubt, those third-world countries who can manage it) is encrypted with a one-
time pad and transported by diplomatic pouch.

All of the arguments and evidence I have heard concerning the NSA's ability 
to read DES-encrypted traffic point to a computational advantage, not an 
advantage in knowledge of the algorithm.  Remember, the NSA is one of Cray's 
bigger customers, and can afford to throw quite a lot of hardware (and 
software) at the problem.  Even so, the most credible source I have so far 
encountered describes an exhaustive search, with an average completion time 
on the order of a day, and requiring the tasking of quite a large set of 
resources.

My own considered opinion is that yes, there exist entities which can read 
DES-encrypted traffic if they want to, and no, this is not something I worry 
about.  Real-time overhead surveillance is a proven capability, too, but I 
don't worry about the CIA tracking where I go grocery shopping with it...


Amanda Walker
InterCon Systems Corporation


