Newsgroups: sci.crypt
From: pfleeger@tisuk.demon.co.uk (Charles P Pfleeger)
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!pipex!uknet!warwick!qmw-dcs!qmw!demon!tisuk.demon.co.uk!pfleeger
Subject: Re: Cryptographic Resume / Credentials of Dorothy Denning 
Distribution: world
References: <1v63pn$5o9@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu>
Organization: Trusted Information Systems (UK) Ltd
Reply-To: pfleeger@tis.com
X-Newsreader: Simple NEWS 1.90 (ka9q DIS 1.21)
Lines: 60
Date: Mon, 14 Jun 1993 09:54:03 +0000
Message-ID: <740051643snz@tisuk.demon.co.uk>
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk

In article <1v63pn$5o9@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu> ceblair@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu writes:

->  I've been skimming this thread.  I would be curious as to whether
->Ms Denning's book includes contributions of her own to this field,
->or whether research papers by her have appeared in the open literature.
->(I think this was the intent of the original poster).
->
->   It is, of course, possible that Ms Denning has made substantial
->unpublished contributions, as I believe is the case with the designers
->of DES.
->

I don't have a full copy of her publications list, but I can cite 
several computer security papers of which I happen to have to
have copies.  (Note: most of these are in my "fundamental papers"
file as major foundations in the computer security field.)  

"A Lattice Model of Secure Information Flow," Comm. ACM May '76: an
extract from her PhD dissertation, in which she models [computerized]
information flows provably secure against 'leakage.'  Not about
cryptography, but it does establish her as one of the earlier members
of the computer security field.

"A Review of Research on Statistical Data Base Security," Foundations
of Secure Computing, 1978: a study in a field that she was to 
continue for several years on inference from results obtained from
data base queries.  Again, not about cryptography per se, but
demonstrative of the analytical process crucial in cryptography.

"Data Security" Comput Surveys Sept '79: still a good exposition on
the key problems in computer security.

"Timestamps in Key Distribution Protocols," Comm ACM Aug '81: what we
need for secure key distribution.

"Protecting public keys and signature keys," Computer Feb '83: looks
at some of the less-than-obvious issues in digital signatures.

"Field Encryption and Authentication," Proc. Crypto '83: [I think] use
of field-level encryption to protect data in databases.

"Commutative Filters for Reducing Inference Threats in Multilevel
Database Systems" Proc. 1985 IEEE Symp on Security and Privacy: the
basis for restricting queries that can lead to comrpomise through
inference in a database.

.. The list continues.  I haven't checked this year's list, but 
Dr. Denning has frequently served on the program committee of the 
IEEE Symposium on Research in Security and Privacy.  It is also 
important to note that she has worked on many problems in computer 
security, involving operating systems, compiler design, database 
management systems and, yes, cryptography.  Also, significantly, I
do not know of any NSA funding she has had on this or related issues.


My point is that Dr. Denning's reputation in computer security and
in cryptography is very solid.  While you or I may disagree with her
opinions on cryptography and its uses, her understanding of cryptography
and its strengths and limitations is indisputable.

