Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!das-news.harvard.edu!husc-news.harvard.edu!zariski!kubo
Newsgroups: alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt,sci.skeptic
Subject: Re: Assumptions about NSA Capabilities
Message-ID: <1993Jun15.021114.24963@husc3.harvard.edu>
From: kubo@zariski.harvard.edu (Tal Kubo)
Date: 15 Jun 93 02:11:13 EDT
References: <1993Jun12.004355.24886@husc3.harvard.edu> <1993Jun14.110852.4321@relay.nswc.navy.mil>
Organization: Dept. of Math, Harvard Univ.
Nntp-Posting-Host: zariski.harvard.edu
Lines: 125
Xref: msuinfo alt.privacy.clipper:810 sci.crypt:17182 sci.skeptic:46525

In article <1993Jun14.110852.4321@relay.nswc.navy.mil> 
trooker@xobu (T. Rooker) writes:
>
>Actually one must put your statements in perspective.  Since your premises
>are flawed one must question your conclusions.

There are several issues here, of which only the  NSA/KGB comparability
issue is addressed below.   It seems to me that however one answers this
question, Mr. Sternlight's "working hypothesis" falls apart: if the NSA is
much better than the KGB (and hence all other foreign adversaries), then
that they can crack the current systems says nothing about the danger from
foreign eavesdropping; if they are comparable, then KGB's decryption
difficulties suggest that nobody, including NSA and those supposed foreign
eavesdroppers, can easily crack all current non-Clipper systems.


>:   -- the vast manpower and resources of the KGB (certainly comparable to
>:        NSA's);
>
>It depends upon HOW those resources are used.  The KGB is a mix of the
>CIA, NSA, FBI, and possibly others.  The NSA's primary purpose is crypto and 
>COMSEC.

In the mid-1980's (the end of the time frame to which the given information
applies), the KGB employed about 400,000 people within the USSR, in
addition to about 200,000 security police and untold numbers of informants.
Although I don't have precise figures for how many of those 400,000 were
involved in cryptography and related areas, I propose a simple
back-of-the-envelope model: take the fraction of US intelligence personnel
employed at NSA, multiply by 400000,  and divide by 2 or 3 to account for
the larger amount of bureaucracy in the USSR.  Then compare with the number
reputed to work at NSA.  What do *you* think the ratio of crypto manpower
was on the two sides?


>:   -- the much larger production of mathematicians in the ex-USSR as
>:        compared to the US, and the much greater power of the Soviet
>:        government to direct the employment of these people toward the 
>:        security needs of the state;
>
>This larger production involves theoretical mathematicians.  

This is incorrect.  First, the Soviet system of mathematics education
actually had much stronger ties between theory and applications than that
in the US. Many "pure" mathematicians worked (or received their degrees)
at industrial institutes. Try looking at major Soviet and US math journals
sometime, and compare the table of contents -- you will find that the
Soviet publications were actually more skewed toward applications than the
American ones.  Second, the Soviet education system was much stronger than
that in the US in areas which foster skills relevant to practical work in
cryptography (and the production of specialists in crypto-relevant fields):
specialized math & science schools for talented students; an extensive
system of olympiads; more emphasis on problem-solving; instruction and
frequent competition in chess; generally much stronger education in math
and physics.

>                                                             At some time
>engineering expertise is required to develop workable systems, and in this
>area the West is usually considered to have the lead.

Correct.  However, with modern cryptographic schemes, theoretical
breakthroughs are likely to be at least as important to practical
decryptions, as more powerful computers.  Otherwise a few extra bits 
of key puts the problem out of reach of even the NSA's hardware.


>:   -- that the NSA and other spy agencies employ only a fraction of the
>:        mathematicians and computer scientists who work openly in
>:        crypto-related fields (and academia gets most of the top people);
>
>Again you confuse brute force manpower with focused effort.  People working
>within the NSA appear to have a consider advantage [see my next comment].

Yes and no. NSA and similar agencies clearly have much more experience in
carrying out practical decryptions.  But for a number of current
cryptosystems, decryption is either known or expected to be equivalent to
solving certain mathematical problems in which the bulk of both the
expertise and the focused effort (computational as well as theoretical) lies
outside NSA.  This is especially true of the more recent codes bases on
algebraic curves, which use a MUCH higher level of theory than RSA and DES.
And the higher the level of theory used goes, the more likely it is that
the advances will originate in the unclassified work and NSA will
increasingly need to turn elsewhere for expertise.  Hint: NSA has
recently been going on an initiative to increase their contact with the
mathematical community at large (including NSA mathematicians publishing
work in open literature).


>:   -- that historically, almost all breakthroughs in mathematics are
>:        independently rediscovered within a few years or months;
>
>This observation is based on Newton's "... shoulders of giants..." comment.
>This rediscovery occurs because foundations are laid that multiple people
>can build on.  If there is an open communication of preliminary results, it
>would be MORE suprising if this rediscovery did not happen.  The NSA disrupts
>this process by classifying these intermediate results.  Look at some
>of the recently declassified documents (check an Aegean Park Press catalog).
>Many date from the 1950's!  Much of the work required for these rediscoveries
>is simply not available outside the NSA.

Presumably the same process also went on in the KGB (except the
declassification of the earlier work), so this only addresses the
comparison of the open vs. classified work, not the KGB/NSA comparability
issue.  Still, I think the above is somewhat misleading.  If the ratio of
people employed in NSA vs. unclassified cryptography were the same in the
1950's as in 1993, the above example might be more relevant.


>So what?  Again there is a need for engineering expertise to develop real
>systems.  Again there is vail of secrecy around the NSA.  Even though
>differential cryptanalysis has only recently become well known, the IBM
>designers of DES knew aobut it when DES was designed, and that was in a
>large corporation without benefit of military classification.  Who knows
>how many such results are available inside the NSA?  Assuming there are 
>(were?) at least current with IBM, then they would be 10-15 years ahead of
>the open literature.  

Let's say 20 years ahead on a number of discoveries.  Now divide by the
change in the NSA-to-unclassified cryptographer ratio (or, more
realistically, by the change in number of crypto articles published per
year) between the time DES was developed and the time Clipper was
developed.  This is a reasonable guess for the size of the lead one 
can assume today.


