Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!darwin.sura.net!haven.umd.edu!uunet!munnari.oz.au!constellation!convex!gardner
From: gardner@convex.com (Steve Gardner)
Subject: Re: Cryptographic Resume / Credentials of Dorothy Denning
Sender: usenet@news.eng.convex.com (news access account)
Message-ID: <1993Jun15.130449.16320@news.eng.convex.com>
Date: Tue, 15 Jun 1993 13:04:49 GMT
References: <strnlghtC8F3nx.C6r@netcom.com> <16071@tivoli.UUCP> <strnlghtC8nIyy.Ir7@netcom.com>
Nntp-Posting-Host: imagine.convex.com
Organization: Engineering, CONVEX Computer Corp., Richardson, Tx., USA
X-Disclaimer: This message was written by a user at CONVEX Computer
              Corp. The opinions expressed are those of the user and
              not necessarily those of CONVEX.
Lines: 40

In article <strnlghtC8nIyy.Ir7@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:
>One of the lessons of the holocaust, which many who have attacked my analogy
>conveniently ignore, is 'stop em when they're small'. By the time they get
>big it's often too late.
	David, that is *EXACTLY* why people are concerned about the
	clipper chip.  There has been no ban of alternate cryptographic
	methods YET but everyone is concerned that the trend is in that
	direction because:
		1. the official press release mentioned that banning
		   other forms of cryptography was an option on the
		   table and specifically denied that there was a
		   right of citizens to encrypt data.
		2. the only way clipper will work to read the bad guys
		   communications is if alternative methods are banned.
		   (because smart criminals will avoid cryptography
		    with a law enforcement back door--isn't this obvious
		    for crying out loud?)

	You, David, have consistently ignored these troublesome points
	and tried to sweep away concerns about police state trends that are
	clearly visible by "assuming" them away.  You have to understand,
	this is not the same government you think it is.  The cold war
	state security bureaucracy is scared of losing the money and 
	jobs that the now-defunct Soviet Union brought them.  With the 
	soviets gone the security apparatus (NSA, CIA, parts of the FBI, 
	DIA, etc) need a new bogeyman.  Many of us fear that the state
	security apparatus will justify its huge budgets and massive
	personnel resources by reorienting its emphasis toward "domestic"
	enemies--otherwise known as citizens that oppose the government.
	I for one am very concerned  that with the damage already done to our
	constitutional rights by the War on Some Drugs we have an
	incipient police state on our hands.  You claim to be a patriot.
	Patriots of the country that I grew up in were not apologists
	for incipient police states.  Patriotism used to mean a love of
	the freedoms protected by the constitution not the mere love of
	a flag or a government bureacracy.  Wake up for crying out loud!


							smg

