Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!sdd.hp.com!saimiri.primate.wisc.edu!news.crd.ge.com!sunblossom!newshost.atl.ge.com!mstebnis
From: mstebnis@atl.ge.com (Michael Stebnisky)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Clipper: Things to Consider
Date: 15 Jun 1993 17:39:52 GMT
Organization: GE Aerospace, Advanced Technology Labs
Lines: 57
Message-ID: <1vl1h9INNe9@rifraf.atl.ge.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: seldon.atl.ge.com

I can see from recent postings that there are a lot of people concerned about
their crypto future. Most of what I've seen so far relates to mathematical/
civil liberties issues. I think that, in addition to those issues, there are
a LOT MORE THINGS TO WORRY ABOUT. There are a whole series of engineering/
infrastructure/trust issues that exist, ie:

   What is it that needs to be secured? In what time frame? For whom?
  	At what cost? Where will we be ten years from now?
	Communications is exploding. PEM may be fine, but I think that the
	overall requirement will be three to four orders of magnitude higher
	than the E-mail bandwidth. How much in the way of proprietary 
	and competatively sensitive corporate technology, pricing data and
	legal agreements are currently going across faxes without ANY 
	security at all? How much of the same sort of data is beginning to
	go across national and international networks as E-mail, FTP, etc.
	How much of this is being intercepted and used by competitors?
	What is the communications scenario for the next 10 years? How many
	subscribers, what data rates? Cellular communications is going 
	through the roof, with no security. What is the impact of multimedia, 
	videoconferencing? Will people REALLY want to be making online banking, 
	stock, etc transactions from their PC's at home? What will be the REAL
	probability that some hacker can divert your bank account, stock 
	holdings or entire pension into his secret account? Suppose that
	organized crime and/or the drug cartel decides that the future is in
	electronic banditry; how many $ and MIPs can they throw onto the 
	problem? (although payoffs will always be cheaper). If a person wants 
	to verbally or electronically securely communicate with their banker, 
	broker, lawyer, vendor, supplier, contractor, etc, doesen't that mean
	that that everybody's box has to be compatible? ie Standardized? 
	How long does it take to establish a standard? I believe that they've 
	been working on the HDTV standards for SEVERAL years now. If you 
	take years to come up with a standard, in the meantime NOTHING is 
	secure, or you may need several different boxes to communicate with 
	multiple parties, and/or a lot of equipment will go the way of Betamax.
	Consumers generally don't like that to happen to their several 
	hundred dollar investment, and they don't like companies who do it
	to them.
   Corporate trust vs government trust vs individual trust
	Why should trust of a corporation or individuals be any higher that 
	that of the government? Take the discussion regarding the ways that
	a chip could be diddled so as to compromise the owner. Suppose 
	everyone and his brother starts making and selling SonofClipper
	chips; how do you know how THEY'VE been diddled? Do you suppose
	Intel would trust cryptochips designed and built by AMD? Or vice
	versa? Per the above, suppose that organized crime fronts the 
	design? Could be a big blackmail/industrial espionage potential here. 
	Who tests and verifies all the various chip and system designs
	to verify that nothing is or can be compromised? You gonna get
	Underwriters Laboratories to do it? What's the liability? Even
	if the corporation is legitimate, suppose the VLSI design team gets
	ideas, or a payoff from Saddam?

That's all I have time for now. 




