Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!oracle!unrepliable!bounce
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper,alt.society.civil-liberty,alt.society.resistance,alt.privacy,comp.org.eff.talk
From: cdupree@oracle (Chuck Dupree)
Subject: Re: Clipper, NSA, Trust: The Core of the Matter?
In-Reply-To: louie@sayshell.umd.edu's message of 10 Jun 1993 20:49:30 GMT
Message-ID: <CDUPREE.93Jun12172346@bruins.oracle>
Sender: usenet@oracle.us.oracle.com (Oracle News Poster)
Nntp-Posting-Host: bruins.us.oracle.com
Organization: Oracle Corporation, Belmont, Ca.
References: <CDUPREE.93Jun10121056@bruins.oracle> <1v86oq$5lv@ni.umd.edu>
Distribution: alt
Date: Sun, 13 Jun 1993 01:23:46 GMT
X-Disclaimer: This message was written by an unauthenticated user
              at Oracle Corporation.  The opinions expressed are those
              of the user and not necessarily those of Oracle.
Lines: 49
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:17239 alt.privacy.clipper:849 alt.society.civil-liberty:9901 alt.society.resistance:144 alt.privacy:7408 comp.org.eff.talk:18535

In article <1v86oq$5lv@ni.umd.edu> louie@sayshell.umd.edu 
(Louis A. Mamakos) writes about the choices he sees:

     - buy a "Clipperphone" with probably pretty good crypto, but
     obvious "backdoors" in the form of tempting escrowed keys.
     This, to me, seems too tempting to abuse in the name of
     expediency. 

     - buy a "DESphone" with probably not quite as good crypto, but no
     obvious backdoors just tempting abuse.

   I worry that legislation will prevent the latter choice, or that vendors
   who might be tempted to offer the latter will not be able or permitted to
   market them.

I agree, and this was the point I was attempting to make originally.
It seems to me that your choices involve two "phones," one that seems
vulnerable to back doors, the other using an older and probably
somewhat weaker encoding methods.  Given such a choice, I would expect
that many people would choose to avoid the danger of back doors, as
you imply that you might when you state your fear of such a choice
being outlawed.

In transmitting encrypted data, the goal is usually to avoid
disclosure both by the transmission agents and by hostile or competing
organizations.  If you're more worried about the transmission agents
accidentally discovering the real meaning of the data, you're probably
comfortable with the newer technology, government-standard version; if
you're more worried about intentional attack from competition, you
probably want to avoid back doors.

So what possible reason could the government have for removing legal
alternatives to Clipper, as was suggested in that Washington Post
article recently?  It seems to me that the only thing that makes sense
is to suppose that there are encryption methods publicly available
that the NSA cannot penetrate, and that it wishes to remove those
obstacles to what has traditionally been its unchecked access to all
telephone and telegraph communications to, from, or within the U.S..
However, that's because I don't trust the government, or more
specifically the NSA (some parts I trust more than others).  If, on
the other hand, you do trust NSA, then you probably believe their
claim to be five or more years ahead of state-of-the-art, in which
case they're probably doing us a favor by bringing us this application
of their technology to some problems, minor but nagging, of daily
life.

Isn't it all a matter of whether you trust NSA?

- ced
