Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!uunet!oracle!unrepliable!bounce
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper,alt.society.civil-liberty,alt.society.resistance,alt.privacy,comp.org.eff.talk
From: cdupree@oracle (Chuck Dupree)
Subject: Re: Clipper, NSA, Trust: The Core of the Matter?
In-Reply-To: strnlght@netcom.com's message of Thu, 10 Jun 1993 23:30:41 GMT
Message-ID: <CDUPREE.93Jun12180544@bruins.oracle>
Sender: usenet@oracle.us.oracle.com (Oracle News Poster)
Nntp-Posting-Host: bruins.us.oracle.com
Organization: Oracle Corporation, Belmont, Ca.
References: <CDUPREE.93Jun10121056@bruins.oracle> <strnlghtC8FIn5.IJF@netcom.com>
Distribution: alt
Date: Sun, 13 Jun 1993 02:05:44 GMT
X-Disclaimer: This message was written by an unauthenticated user
              at Oracle Corporation.  The opinions expressed are those
              of the user and not necessarily those of Oracle.
Lines: 131
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:17240 alt.privacy.clipper:850 alt.society.civil-liberty:9902 alt.society.resistance:145 alt.privacy:7409 comp.org.eff.talk:18536

In article <strnlghtC8FIn5.IJF@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:

   I don't agree all that the NSA is a very dangerous agency. It's a bunch of
   technicians, tasked by the intelligence community, and with a strong
   civilian review board responsible to the civilian Secretary of Defense and
   to the President.

If the strong civilian review board you refer to is the National
Foreign Intelligence Board (formerly USIB), it seems from my reading
of Bamford's Puzzle Palace to be composed entirely of senior members
of intelligence agencies, hardly what I would personally consider
strong civilian oversight, though we may differ on that.  

   >- the NSA was created by still-classified Executive order and
   >chartered by still-classified directive of the National Security
   >Council; it is thus responsible only to the President and the NSC, who
   >can change its charter at any time without the knowledge of anyone
   >outside the intelligence community

   Again, in classified matters you have to trust some ultimate authority, and
   in our system it's the President and the appropriate oversight committees of
   Congress.

True, and while I might complain about that in some circumstances :-),
that's not my point here.  My point is that the NSA was not created or
chartered by law, _there are no oversight committees of Congress_
in this case, and the only shred of oversight is a part-time board of
people who would tend to cooperate anyway.  This is not a good
situation, whether or not advantage has already been taken of it.

   >- its charter and some other laws (such as the COMINT statute,
   >sometimes known as the U.S. version of the British Official Secrets
   >act; Public Las 86-36; the 1968 Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets
   >Act; etc.) appear to allow it to disregard anything but a direct order
   >from the President or NSC specifically including NSA and the action
   >involved; it can apparently disregard any law directed to the
   >government or intelligence community in general, and it is
   >specifically exempted from being forced to reveal anything about
   >itself, even in court

   I believe this to be flat inaccurate. Check your facts before writing. I
   suggest a letter to the Chairman of the appropriate Senate and House
   intelligence committees.

These facts, if they are facts, all come from Bamford's Puzzle Palace.
Each of these laws is listed in the index.  I may have summarized
Bamford incorrectly, of course.  But I have checked my facts as far as
I can check them.  As Tim Weiner says, The Puzzle Palace is "the
best---the only---history of the NSA."

   >- NSA's budget is entirely "black;" that is, Congress authorizes the
   >entire budget of NSA, estimated in 1990 at $10 billion, without
   >knowledge of the amount allocated or the purposes for which the funds
   >will be used (these funds are hidden in arbitrary areas of the budget,
   >with the result that Congress can never be sure how much is allocated
   >to anything)

   I believe this to be untrue. The black budget IS hidden in the unclassified
   materials for obvious national security reasons, but is not hidden from
   the appropriate Congressional oversight and budgetary committees, nor from
   the Office of Management and Budget. Specific program authorities need
   review and approval--the NSA is very far from a "loose cannon." Again,
   before writing this up and embarassing yourself, check with the appropriate
   Congressional sources of info. You may even be pleasantly surprised at what
   you get back if you also check with the NSA's public information office.

I assume that this is a subtle joke based on Bamford's pointed comment
that the NSA is nearly the only agency of the Federal government
entirely without a public information office.  Regarding the black
budget, see Tim Weiner's Blank Check, from which all the data I quoted
on the black budget was drawn.  Not only is this information hidden
from Congress; the law Congress passed in 1949 (the Central
Intelligence Agency Act) was hidden from Congress, except for the
senior members of the House and Senate Armed Services committees,
according to Weiner.  

I have read several books to gather information for the article I
mentioned, and while they show a variety of viewpoints, I did not
encounter the viewpoint that NSA program authorities need review and
approval, or that the NSA is far from a loose cannon.  But you're
right, I could probably get that opinion in written form by contacting
Congressional sources of information.  But you forget, I don't really
trust them, and prefer to get information from sources that seem to be
more independent.

   >- NSA has in the past spied on American citizens in actions which
   >would be illegal if performed by the CIA or the FBI (the most
   >extensive example was Project Shamrock, which went on for thirty
   >years); for many years it has had the capability to intercept
   >practically all telephone and telegraph communications to, from, or
   >within the U.S., and on occasion it has turned this capability against
   >political targets, especially in the Nixon administration but by many
   >others as well

   This is a concatenation of misinformation. Shamrock, as I understand it, was
   in aid of the NSA's monitoring of conversations with a foreigner on one end.
   That's legal if that end is overseas. (For details write Congress). 

Shamrock included much more than conversations with a foreigner on one
end, and was by no means clearly legal.  It involved RCA, ITT, and
Western Union in activities that all their legal counsels considered
dangerous, and President Ford considered embarrassing enough to
attempt to invoke executive privilege to keep executives of those
three private corporations from testifying about Shamrock in front of
Congress.  (They testified anyway.)  For a couple of hundred pages of
details, see (guess what) Bamford's Puzzle Palace.

   There is no evidence I'm aware of that the NSA monitored political targets.
   I think that to be flat untrue and before repeating such a calumny you
   better check your info.

Again, the source is Bamford's Puzzle Palace, where many instances of
targeting U.S. citizens for primarly political reasons are presented.  
Worse yet was avoided, no doubt, when the Huston Plan was retracted
after Nixon approved it; but political targeting is a documented fact,
if you trust (there it is again) Bamford.  

David, I don't think you could read The Puzzle Palace and repeat this
statement, unless you consider the vast majority of its contents to be
a fabrication.  And it might be, but I'd need to see an argument in
that direction...  Even then, doesn't it come back to who you trust?

As I said in my original posting,

   >I would be happy to hear of factual or logical errors involved in the
   >following items.  Please, if you wish to dispute the facts, include
   >the sources of your information, as I am attempting to ensure that my
   >article and my conclusions are based on the facts as I can ascertain
   >and attribute them.  Thanks!

- ced
