Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!darwin.sura.net!udel!news.intercon.com!usenet
From: amanda@intercon.com (Amanda Walker)
Newsgroups: alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Assumptions about NSA Capabilities
Date: Thu, 17 Jun 1993 11:51:58 -0500
Organization: InterCon Systems Corporation, Herndon, VA, USA
Lines: 45
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <1vq3v5$hn5@news.intercon.com>
References: <740276639snz@eloka.demon.co.uk>
Reply-To: amanda@intercon.com (Amanda Walker)
NNTP-Posting-Host: chaos.intercon.com
X-Newsreader: InterCon TCP/Connect II 1.2b1
Xref: msuinfo alt.privacy.clipper:877 sci.crypt:17275

oml@eloka.demon.co.uk (Owen Lewis) writes:
> Sounds reasonable to me, though I'm not sure I know what you mean by "
> conventional" military encryption.

Mass-produced, well-understood cryptosystems in widespread use.  Roughly, the 
kind you can read about in this newsgroup (or Aviation Leak :))...

> As has been posted elsewhere, since the bare *concept* of an automated 
> OTP is a simple one - and the system 'unbreakable' - wouldn't it be fun 
> if someone produced one for common use? 

Subsystems for PCs that produce random numbers from radioactive decay have 
been available on the commercial market for at least ten years or so...

> Come to think about it, perhaps physical security is not always the 
> greatest vulnerability in a fielded OTP system? 

Physical security of the pad is the only vulnerability in the encryption 
algorithm per se.  Other aspects of the cryptosystem are the same whatever 
the algorithm, such as message transport concerns.

> That's interesting. Why would you not post about discrete mathematics 
> and information theory in which you are trained, have first hand 
> experience and may well be contributing original work,

Mainly because I gave up on the idea of being a mathematician in any sense 
beyond a hobby about 11 years ago.  I study it strictly for fun.  I do, in 
contrast, have a professional interest in the practical application of 
cryptography (and lately, the legal entanglements surrounding it in this 
country).  And in any case, Usenet is no place for serious discussion of any 
topic; discussion of actual mathematics always get drowned out in this 
newsgroup, so I don't bother.  I take part in those discussions that do 
happen...

Besides, I'll be the first to admit that I'm very much an amateur:  I've 
never worked in the intelligence industry (nor do I plan to), and for all I 
know my postings may be a cause for regular chuckles over the lunch tables up 
at Ft. Meade.  I have fun finding out things I didn't know before, though...


Amanda Walker
Advanced Projects
InterCon Systems Corporation


