Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!darwin.sura.net!seas.gwu.edu!hoffman
From: hoffman@seas.gwu.edu (Lance J. Hoffman)
Subject: Gov't-selected Clipper evaluators and those who declined
Message-ID: <1993Jun17.135454.13255@seas.gwu.edu>
Sender: news@seas.gwu.edu
Organization: George Washington University
Distribution: sci.crypt alt.privacy.clipper comp.risks
Date: Thu, 17 Jun 1993 13:54:54 GMT
Lines: 48

     I am writing a paper on Clipper for Communications of the ACM
and I *may* list (in a footnote) some or all of the individual
evaluators selected by NIST (if their identities are made public by
the government or if they personally identify themselves publicly
or indicate to me that they are in that category).  I *may* also
list some or all of those who were asked and declined (or had a
conversation with Administration officials suggesting or selecting
the evaluators and declined before they were asked) for the reason
that
 
     "the required secrecy (not only with respect to Clipper, but
     with respect to future endeavors) was a price not worth
     paying"
 
or for other reasons, if they state those reasons to me.
 
     If you would like to have been asked or to have had such a
conversation (either so you could have accepted or declined) but
were not, you do not fit in either of my categories!
 
     If you DO fit in either of those categories, please fax
(ideally) or snailmail IMMEDIATELY to me a letter (on letterhead)
stating this.  (You can email a response, but please follow it up
with a fax or letter, because otherwise I can't consider it
authenticated!!!!!! (Ironically, I haven't personally used any
crypto signature scheme yet because I haven't needed one until now,
and they haven't been friendly or available enough to date!)
 
     If you know someone who may fit this, please pass this on to
them. 
 
     Thank you.

-- 
Professor Lance J. Hoffman
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
The George Washington University
Washington, D. C. 20052

(202) 994-4955
fax: (202) 994-0227
hoffman@seas.gwu.edu

-- 
Professor Lance J. Hoffman
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
The George Washington University
Washington, D. C. 20052
