Path: msuinfo!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!samsara.LAW.CWRU.Edu!Junger
From: Junger@samsara.law.cwru.edu (Peter D. Junger)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Example programs for OTP?
Date: Thu, 17 Jun 1993 20:41:16 GMT
Organization: Case Western Reserve University Law School
Lines: 43
Message-ID: <Junger.119.740349676@samsara.law.cwru.edu>
References: <1vnpv1$fcn@cville-srv.wam.umd.edu> <WCS.93Jun16195338@rainier.ATT.COM>
NNTP-Posting-Host: samsara.law.cwru.edu

>In article <1vnpv1$fcn@cville-srv.wam.umd.edu> rsrodger@wam.umd.edu (Acquiescence) writes:
>           Anyone know where I can find executables (for the PC) or 
>           sources to a one-time pad encryption program?  

I have written a simple DOS COM program that implements one-time pad
encryption/decryption.  I've now got it down to 114 bytes in length.
I expect that it will ultimately take up less than 110 bytes.  At the
moment I am working on the instructions for assembling the program in
DEBUG.

This is being done for my class in computers and the law and is the simplest
program that I could think of that would _demonstrate_ the peculiarities
of what happens to `information' when a computer starts playing around
with it.  I would happily give it to anyone who wants it--but that raises
the problem that the ITAR regulations say that publishing technical data
about an encryption program in the United States is exporting the technical 
data--which is on the US munitions list.  Willfully exporting something on 
the munitions list without a license is a crime.  (Of course that whole 
combination is unconstitutional, but the penalty for committing the crime 
is up to one million dollars and ten years.)

So I am not willing to place the program on an anonymous FTP server.

If you are a United States citizen and are willing to certify that you are--
or if you are admitted to permanent residence in the US and are willing to 
certify that you are--I can make arrangements for you to get a copy of this 
program (and instructions on how to use it, since it is not user friendly).

By the way, I am considering suing to establish that the government cannot 
require me to get a license to publish information about this program--or 
about any other cryptographic program, so I have to request that you do not 
make it public--doing so might damage my standing to sue.  But you can 
certainly make it available to your (U.S.) students and colleagues.

For those of you who are not eligible to accept my offer, I apologize for 
the incivility of certain agencies of the United States.  I have talked with 
them about this matter, and some of them are extremely incivil.


Peter D. Junger

Case Western Reserve University Law School, Cleveland, OH
Internet:  JUNGER@SAMSARA.LAW.CWRU.Edu -- Bitnet:  JUNGER@CWRU
