Path: msuinfo!agate!biosci!oracle!unrepliable!bounce
From: cdupree@oracle (Chuck Dupree)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper,alt.society.civil-liberty,alt.society.resistance,alt.privacy,comp.org.eff.talk
Subject: Re: Clipper, NSA, Trust: The Core of the Matter?
Message-ID: <CDUPREE.93Jun17153246@bruins.oracle>
Date: 17 Jun 93 23:32:46 GMT
References: <CDUPREE.93Jun10121056@bruins.oracle> <strnlghtC8FIn5.IJF@netcom.com>
	<CDUPREE.93Jun12180544@bruins.oracle> <C8s1L8.A79@nsc.nsc.com>
Sender: usenet@oracle.us.oracle.com (Oracle News Poster)
Distribution: alt
Organization: Oracle Corporation, Belmont, Ca.
Lines: 62
In-Reply-To: roger@goldfinger.nsc.com's message of Thu, 17 Jun 1993 17:51:08 GMT
Nntp-Posting-Host: bruins.us.oracle.com
X-Disclaimer: This message was written by an unauthenticated user
              at Oracle Corporation.  The opinions expressed are those
              of the user and not necessarily those of Oracle.
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:17301 alt.privacy.clipper:893 alt.society.civil-liberty:9918 alt.society.resistance:152 alt.privacy:7440 comp.org.eff.talk:18570

In article <C8s1L8.A79@nsc.nsc.com> roger@goldfinger.nsc.com 
(Roger Thompson) writes: 

   I didn't include any  copy from prior postings, BUT one thing to remember
   about the Puzzle Palace book is that it is NOT current to todays policies
   etc --- this can go both ways.  Yes this is a good book --- but based
   on todays reality it is no longer FACT.  A lot has changed --- what
   I don't know BUT a lot has changed.

I'm perfectly willing to believe that a lot has changed about the NSA
in the past eleven years.  What I find difficult to believe, without
evidence, is that the intelligence community is more regulated after
Reagan and Bush than it was previously.  (As you say, this can go both
ways.)  It seems more likely to me that the NSA and its companion
agencies are far freer today than they were in 1982.  (By the way,
does anyone know whether the "birth certificate" and "charter" for the
NSA, the Truman executive order and NSCID No.6, have ever been
declassified, so that we know why we budget that $10 billion every
year?)

As to today's policies, The Puzzle Palace shows the NSA and its
predecessors to have been remarkably consistent in maintaining the
purpose and improving the methods for what appears to be its assigned
task.  That sort of institutional consistency over forty years is
hard, though of course possible, to change without some reforming
fervor in the public or the Congress or the Executive.  I haven't
noticed any reformers of the intelligence community recently, but
I certainly don't claim that this is proof.

The agency may indeed have changed in several ways since The Puzzle
Palace.  Is there any reason, though, to suppose that this is no
longer the agency described in the buried Abzug committee report?
(Called this to avoid having to say the entire name: House Government
Operations Subcommittee on Government Information and Individual
Rights.)  According to Bamford (Puzzle Palace), the report claimed

    that the NSA's appeal to the Congress and the public that 
    they simply "trust us" was totally unjustified when viewed 
    in the light of the Agency's long record of privacy violations.

Before I decide that the NSA has reformed in a manner that matters,
I'll need to see some strong evidence, to overcome the strong evidence
that currently exists for four decades of abuse.  Until then, I feel
that Sen. Church's description is still the safest operating
assumption:

    That capability at any time could be turned around on the American
    people and no American would have any privacy left, such is the
    capability to monitor everything: telephone conversations,
    telegrams, it doesn't matter.  There would be no place to hide.

And I think his recommendation that "we see to it that this agency and
all agencies that possess this technology operate within the law and
under proper supervision" must be followed if there is to be any
reason to trust the intelligence agencies for those who are not
disposed to believe the American versions of Pravda or Tass.

On the other hand, if anyone has come across evidence that things are
more under control now than in 1982, I'd certainly like to know about
it, and would love a chance to improve my somewhat gloomy forecast.

- ced
