Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!uunet!news!news.world.net!connected.com!eskimo!rwing!pat
From: pat@rwing.UUCP (Pat Myrto)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Clipper: Things to Consider
Message-ID: <2258@rwing.UUCP>
Date: 19 Jun 93 00:51:07 GMT
References: <1vl1h9INNe9@rifraf.atl.ge.com>
Organization: Totally Unorganized
Lines: 90

In article <1vl1h9INNe9@rifraf.atl.ge.com> mstebnis@atl.ge.com (Michael Stebnisky) writes:
>
> [ ... deleted ... ]
>
>I can see from recent postings that there are a lot of people concerned about
>their crypto future. Most of what I've seen so far relates to mathematical/
>civil liberties issues. I think that, in addition to those issues, there are
>a LOT MORE THINGS TO WORRY ABOUT. There are a whole series of engineering/
>infrastructure/trust issues that exist, ie:
>
>   Corporate trust vs government trust vs individual trust
>	Why should trust of a corporation or individuals be any higher that 
>	that of the government? Take the discussion regarding the ways that

The degree of paranoia of getting something with a back door goes up
with the increasing veil of secrecy, and with the motive of the designer.

Corporations are usually motivated by increasing profit, governments
are motiviated by power and control.  Corporations don't write laws
to satisfy their whim, governments do, and enforce them with guns.

The motive of a government to make a chip with a back door would be to
ensure that nobody can do anything they dislike (legal or not) without
them knowing about it, because it could mean something MIGHT happen
to reduce or take that power away from them.

The motive of a corporation to make a chip with a back door would be
to get competitors secrets, most likely, with aims at increasing profit
or eliminating competition with minimal expenditure.   Most corporations
aren't interested in what Joe Blow might be up to, if it doesn't relate
to their business.  On the other hand, governments like to think that
whatever ANYBODY does at ANY time IS their business (the Constitution
notwithstanding).

A disincentive to a corporation putting out a chip with a back door is
if it is ever discovered, nobody will want that product line anymore.
And probably won't want to get ANYTHING from that outfit - profits go
to hell.  That would be the LAST thing a corporation would want.

In the case with government, they will just pass a law (or issue an
executive order) giving them a monopoly - use OUR chip, like it or lump
it, or go to jail, and if you don't go to jail, we will come with guns,
and kill you if necessary to FORCE compliance, and intimidate others
into complying.  Remember, bottom line behind Waco is some Federal
gun laws that are of questionable constitutionality to anybody who
has read the intent behind the Second Amendment.  I am sure that
has deterred some folks considering getting a gun from following through,
which I am sure is fine with Clinton and his BATF buddies.  It will
also scare others from getting anything even approaching a weapon
type Big Brother doesn't want anybody to have but his hirelings.

THAT is why I suspect many folks are much more concerned about goverment
designs having deliberate back doors than commercial designs (neglecting
the non-serious security gimmicks on popular software packages, which
are non-secure in no small part that they can't export them if they do
have decent security features - again due to government desires, not
corporate desires).  We have a huge intelligence and eavesdropping
capability, with no ComBloc to concentrate on, its either turn all those
resources against US Citizens, or downsize (meaning a lot of people
lose some neat, practically exempt-from-everything jobs).

Government is no longer by the people for the people - government
has become an end in itself - and decisions like Clipper are, I feel,
but a step in many planned steps to control the populace to their own
ends - which are mostly maximizing government power, and minimizing
the peoples' power and control over their own destiny.

How many here are happy that they are paying THEIR money (via taxes)
to destroy what privacy that they have left, and on schemes that will
have a negligable effect on what the advertised reasons for the whole
program is (the 'terrorist' and non-government approved 'drug dealer'
keywords)?

How many corporations could pull the stunts that government has pulled
in past years, up to the present, and still be regarded as a reputable
corporation?

>
> ...
>
>That's all I have time for now. 

Ditto.


-- 
pat@rwing.uucp      [Without prejudice UCC 1-207]     (Pat Myrto) Seattle, WA
         If all else fails, try:       ...!uunet!pilchuck!rwing!pat
WISDOM: "Travelling unarmed is like boating without a lifejacket".
            [Stop the Clipper/Capstone assault on privacy]
