Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!ddsw1!indep1!clifto
From: clifto@indep1.UUCP (Cliff Sharp)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Clipper, NSA, Trust: The Core of the Matter?
Message-ID: <2339@indep1.UUCP>
Date: 19 Jun 93 04:50:58 GMT
References: <1993Jun14.111247.15723@infodev.cam.ac.uk> <2336@indep1.UUCP> <strnlghtC8s3o4.78x@netcom.com>
Organization: as little as possible
Lines: 105

In article <strnlghtC8s3o4.78x@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:
>
>Cliff Sharp suggests that wiretap warrants be published widely a week after
>they expire, except for clearly defined national security categories.
>
>Although I have considerable sympathy with the idea, since it will
>discourage frivolous or "fishing" wiretaps if the tappers knew their
>activities would be revealed, it has the disadvantage of publishing the
>names of those who were once "under suspicion."

   Agreed, but don't those who were once "under suspicion" deserve to know
that they were?

>Though "innocent until proven guilty" is a core principle, many will react
>to such names in ways that will not benefit those named.

   Law enforcement agencies tend toward the attitude that you're "guilty
until proven innocent".  (In fact, that's the case under Louisiana law.)
   I would certainly react unfavorably.  Matter of fact, I did the ultimate
stupid thing just lately; I heard a coded (not encrypted) transmission
on a regular basis on 159.27 MHz over a few days, decided I'd attack the
code, and called the FBI to ask whether it's a government thing I wouldn't
touch or a private matter I'd attack with gusto.  Of course they said it's
not anything they know about, but two days later they went to low power and
VERY directional antennas.  I assume right now they're tapping my phone, and
I'm watching the unix system VERY carefully for signs of unauthorized use
of any kind.  I did the courteous, law-abiding thing; I expect to be fully
penalized for it.
   (Side note: since they disavowed any knowledge of it, I'm attacking the
code anyway.  I know who they are, I know where they live, heh heh.  I'm
going to be collecting text and attacking it.  So far, it's a code of
canned, machine-generated phrases, each generally repeated five times,
text like:
Male voice: " The slang word for whiskey is booze."
Female: "(something) drop the ashes on the worn old rug."
M: "The point of the steel pen was bent and twisted."
F: "The fish twisted and turned on the bent hook." 
M: "The pirate seized the crew of the lost ship."
F: "We live a few miles down the main road.
M: "The wharf could be seen at the farther shore."
   The phrases are stock, repeated, and in one day's total copy I got 122
different phrases.  To further secure the transmissions, a few are total
garble, as though a DtoA converter garbled something; you can duplicate the
sound by grabbing your Adam's apple and wiggling up and down while saying
something in Esperanto.
   All they had to say is "We know of this operation and refuse to disclose
information about it" to get me to stop.  I told them that.  They replied
with their total disavowal of knowledge about it.  Therefore I am proceeding
on the basis that it's private.
   The FCC told me that the frequency is allocated to "forestry and special
industrial use".
   Tips are welcome, EMAIL ONLY.)

>"Uh, well, they didn't get anything on him, but if the FBI suspected him
>they must have had SOME good reason." etc. etc.

   Yeah, right.  Once I discover the plaintext it's going to be all over
the Internet.  Consequences?  Too bad.  They told me it's not government
business, they're going to be forced to stick by that.  I have enough
connections that I can make that stick.

>On balance, protection of innocent individuals suggests that this idea needs
>more work.

   What are they hiding and why?  Taking the government view, it's private
and therefore open territory.  Whatever they have to hide is open to my
inspection as I choose to take the effort to decode it.

   I asked the Federal Government if it was okay to proceed.  Their vague
answer tells me it is.  If they don't like that, too bad.  They had their
chance.

   Attacks?  122 phrases so far, including the garbled ones.  Code, NOT
encryption.  More text is on the way.  I plan initialy to treat each
phrase as a token and attack it that way.  Suggestions are invited BY
EMAIL ONLY.  The sender is a major military suppier.  I have no compunctions
about decoding this.
   I will, in a future message, uuencode the encryption program I use and
provide it as a method of communication.  I've asked if it's secure here and
no one has attacked it on any basis other than its RNG, which most respondents
seem to say is secure; the extra encryption has not been addressed, and I
think it would take some time for the NSA to decrypt it.  People are invited
to use the program per the displayed license (not too restrictive, just don't
sell it or use the algorithms contained for their own use) to reply using
UUENCODE.  The only problem is the keyword; call me at 708-928-2821 and
give me a number to use at a public phone to get it.  Unfortunately, the
executable I'll send works only under MS-DOS.
   Help in decoding this is DEFINITELY solicited. Names will be eradicated;
use an anonymous server if possible for your own protection.  Citations won't
help me as much as algorithms or explanations; our wonderful Illinois rulers
have decided that the increased taxes we pay should go to enhancing their
offices, and getting an interlibrary loan here now costs $10 for each
item.  (Worth it, but I can't afford it.  Bad back and no job.)  DO keep
in mind that communications to this unix system may be tapped.  Do NOT
use ciphers to send information, as I'm not all that good at cracking
them; watch for my UUENCODEd encryption program.  Also, remember that I'm
not all I could be in mathematics, although I do have a source who can help
me understand the more complex stuff.
   Thanks to all who can help.  And thanks to all who read this overlong
posting.
-- 
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   Cliff Sharp  |      clifto@indep1.chi.il.us   OR  clifto@indep1.uucp       |
|     WA9PDM     |                 Use whichever one works                     |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
