Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!darwin.sura.net!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!umn.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!grady
From: grady@netcom.com (Grady Ward)
Subject: Re: Clipper, NSA, Trust: The Core of the Matter?
Message-ID: <gradyC8vH8G.8t2@netcom.com>
Organization: Moby lexicons
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL8]
References: <2339@indep1.UUCP>
Date: Sat, 19 Jun 1993 14:21:52 GMT
Lines: 42


Since the government *already* has clipper-like encryptors
they would have absolutely no interest in using a code
as you describe since the bandwidth degrades with the entropy
of English and a *human* is likely needed to decode the message,
unlike digital modes.

So -- it's some pirate, either, say a drug lord coordinating
a drop or some hobbyist such as you (for example) trying to
give the authorities a bad time.  Because of the frequency is
VHF must be a local operation, i.e., at the border of
LA. (Or the pirates have a satellite :-))

Unlike the voice codes on HF like the 'numbers stations' and
the codes embedded in VOA programming, your 159Mhz pirates
have really got to be a hobbyist jerking the authorities
around.  Even a dumb crook would use a radio packet station and
send PGP compressed and encrypted material.  With just
bursts of packet people wouldn't be clued that the 
transmission is significant.

Under this scenario, calling the FBI is practically an admission
of guilt (the arsonist going to the fire).  And if its one
thing the FBI is good at, it is persistance.  So your phone will
probably be tapped (if the FBI has probable cause) until the
statute of limitations runs out.

Speaking of illicit transmissions:

In the SF Bay area there is a vigilante who is using a crossband
repeater to capture incriminating cellular chatter and
retransmitting it on police bands at night.  Presumably the
police have all night tape recorders.  But of course
down there drug transactions and even murder is talked about
on cell. (So I've heard).

BTW listening to cell or to coded transmissions is against the law in the
United States.


-- 
grady@netcom.com  Moby lexicons  voice/fax (707) 826-7715 
