Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!darwin.sura.net!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!umn.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!kelly
From: kelly@netcom.com (Kelly Goen)
Subject: Re: Critical Review: _Puzzle_Palace_ and Clipper
Message-ID: <kellyC8vt3E.KAJ@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL8]
References: <Jun11.091647.89479@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU>
Date: Sat, 19 Jun 1993 18:38:02 GMT
Lines: 106

L. Detweiler (ld231782@LANCE.ColoState.Edu) wrote:

: From: Mike Tighe <tighe@convex.COM>
: >Sigh.  The only thing more pathetic than blind zealotry for the Government
: >is equally blind faith in the media.  After all, they wouldn't print it if
: >it wasn't true right? OK.  I will play.  Bamford's book has two problems.
: >1) It is out-of-date, 2) It is factually incorrect.

I suggest Interested readers bop on over to the
misc.activism.progressive and get a copy of the intelligence
agencies reading list... BTW I have met the author of "Deadly
Deceits" at talks hosted by the Cristic Action Institute,
I havent ever met bamford face to face but look forward to it.

Information reveled by Puzzle Palace, Deep Black(somewhat inaccurate)
Deadly Deceits, Covert Information Action Bulletin, Soldier of Fortune,
Ramparts, The Progressive, Full Disclosure. And authors such
as the late Daniel Casarlo I personally have followed up on in
many cases after I became interested.  In an alarming
majority of the cases and information I personally checked
"The Puzzle Palace" and books/articles/zines like it have been too overwhelmly
accurate to ignore.


I am a person who belives in getting active politically and technically
to stop such abuses of power. Stopping agencies such as the NSA/CIA/Federal
intelligence community can be done but it cant be done by
singling out the NSA or CIA or FBI or DIA  ad nauseam. Its the
concept of National Security that is itself diseased. This
is the MAIN threat and aegis under which MANY crimes are hidden.

When one agency cant act legally within a certain domain it
either "goes black"(operates illgally and deniably) or it
uses another agency domestice or foreign freindly as
a cutout. The NSA/FBI/DIA/Mossad other foreign and domestic
agencies return the favor. 

Anothet thing to take a look at is the the Whole Inslaw Promis affair
PROMIS which stands for Prosecutorial Management Information
System was stolen and then modified to serve the needs
of the intelligence community, It was then illegally
distributed according to reports to over 135 police and intelligence
agences foreign and domestic worldwide to be used to track
dissidents and terrorists. The list supposedly contains
such luminaries such as Oliver North, the CIA, The Dept of Justice,(Edwin
Meese is apparently the mastermind of the theft).
Other agencies who received copies of PROMIS:
Mossad
Royal Canadian Mounted Police
South African Police
National Security Council
Guatemalan National Police
Operation FINCEN(supposedly FINCEN is based upon PROMIS, FINCEN
stands for FInancial Central)
Many others way too numerous to list.

The newspaper The Napa Senteniel located in Napa California
has been the source for many of the revelations as well
as congressional testimony in cases like BCCI/IRANGATE/Contra Drugs
ets.... Local Bay Area Public TV Stations and Cable channels
have carried MANY investigative videos in the political area...
the CLEAREST READING i get as a concerned citizen is that we have
a HUGE Problem...not only in the CRYPTO area but in ALL spheres
of influence.

The constitution is the Social contract that gives the Federal Government
legal Existance. In my humble and studied opionion we have a contract breaker 
on our hands.

I have been looking into the Bill of Rights Foundation
(part of the general move to limit the CIA/Military intelligence
communities powers whom the NSA feeds COMINT to). According
to a volume called the "CIA Off Campus Movement" that
Former Pres. Reagan signed an executive order #12333
in 1981 which allowed the CIA to operate domestically
if the subject targeted was believed to be an agent of a
foreign power(which would include MOST of the
human rights / Ecological which have international memberships)
This purpose of the executive order according to the volume
was to prevent the legal exposure that occurred during the
church subcommittie hearings to the FBI&CIA over CONINTELPRO
and other intelligence flaps. Due to the representative of
a foreign power provision one could surmise that the full
capabilities of the NSA are available to investigate
many communities of interest to the FED here domestically.


Considering what the CIA does in El Salvador and Guatemala
and what in did in South Vietnam(project Phoenix)
this scares me very badly...

Does it matter if the Puzzle Palace has some small
inaccuracies??? Not a whit the evidence is truely
overwhelming.... and VERY frightening.

I suggest Interested readers folluwup on information presented
in books like the puzzle palace and report back it will prove
to be quite fascinating I am sure... the one advantage we have
now days the the intelligence asset that the worldwide
internet represents. Some of us have been surfing the net
for years for information regarding this area...
Puzzle Palace is only a small chink in an incredibly
huge crimnal enterprise...

    very unhappily yours
    kelly
