Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!newsserver.jvnc.net!yale.edu!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Subject: Re: Clipper, NSA, Trust: The Core of the Matter?
Message-ID: <930620000835.475888@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Date: Sun, 20 Jun 1993 00:08:00 GMT
Lines: 36


 > I still haven't seen anything convincing me that Clipper has better
 >crypto.  What exactly do people base this assumption on?

To the extent that it has any basis, it seems to rest on three
things.  First, it comes from NSA COMSEC and isintended for the 
use of the government.  Second, that it is a Feistel mechanism 
with 32 rounds (compared to 8 for FEAL and 16 for DES).  While 
the government has asserted the latter, the former is an 
assumption.  The numbers may not be comparable.  Third, it uses 
an 80 bit key as opposed to 56 bits for DES.  Again, this assumes 
that the numbers are comparable.

In regard to the third, the DES 56 bit key space is relatively 
flat.  That is all 2**56 keys provide the same security (less
weak keys for which fingers and toes are sufficient to enumerate.)  
It is important to remember the Commmercial Crypto Endorsement
Program (CCEP), the last attempt to accomplish the same objectives
as CLIPPER.  In that proposal, while there was no key escrow
provision, the NSA encouraged you to get your keys from them.
They stated that all keys were not equal, that indeed most were
weak.  You could choose your own and it would be secret but 
weak, or you could get a strong one from them, but they would 
remember which one they had given you.

An 80 bit space is large enough to provide security equal to the
DES and still have most of the keys weak keys.

I have been unsuccessful in getting anyone in the government to
even address the question, much less assert that all keys are
equally strong.  Perhaps this post will elicit a comment from an
authoritative source.

William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104; New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
1-0-ATT-0-700-WMURRAY; WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
