Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!swrinde!network.ucsd.edu!pacbell.com!iggy.GW.Vitalink.COM!wetware!khijol!warrior!erc
From: erc@warrior.uucp (Ed Carp)
Subject: Re: re. Denning's thoughts re: Clipper
References: <strnlghtC8y9zI.871@netcom.com>
Organization: Computer Security Technologies
Date: Mon, 21 Jun 1993 04:03:18 GMT
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL8]
Message-ID: <C8yDxJ.7JA@warrior.uucp>
Lines: 35

David Sternlight (strnlght@netcom.com) wrote:

: If other systems are weak, NSA need not make them illegal.

Unless you don't want other people to know that you can read their mail,
so to speak.  Remember Enigma...

: I further assume that things are exacly what they are claimed--that Clipper
: is a strong system designed to protect U.S. commercial traffic. Thus I
: assume the only way to read Clipper is with the escrowed keys.

I sincerely doubt that the NSA would foster technology which they themselves
could not exploit.

: This explaines not only the above,  but also why the Clipper algorithm must
: be kept secret--not because it's weak, but the opposite--if a "bad guy" got
: hold of the algorithm, he could produce a non-key escrowed version for his
: malfeasance, and it would be considerably stronger against legitimate law
: enforcement efforts (say with a court order) than current commercial crypto.

Again, it would make no sense for the NSA to declassify Clipper, since it
may give people the idea that they could, indeed, break it.

: This is, of course, a subject of some disagreement here--some are quite sure
: that longer-key RSA and triple DES are, for all practical purposes secure
: even against the NSA. But my view is better safe than sorry, so I don't
: assume that.

The first principle of counterintelligence is to never assume that your
opponent *can't* read your mail, and plan accordingly.
-- 
Ed Carp			erc@apple.com, erc@saturn.upl.com	510/659-9560

People ask me how I do it, and I say "There's nothing to it!  You just stand
there looking cute ... and when something moves, YOU SHOOT!"   -- Tom Lehrer
