Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!udel!news.intercon.com!usenet
From: amanda@intercon.com (Amanda Walker)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: The Real Purpose of Clipper?
Date: Mon, 21 Jun 1993 19:59:15 -0500
Organization: InterCon Systems Corporation, Herndon, VA, USA
Lines: 37
Message-ID: <205i0t$rg7@news.intercon.com>
Reply-To: amanda@intercon.com (Amanda Walker)
NNTP-Posting-Host: chaos.intercon.com
X-Newsreader: InterCon TCP/Connect II 1.2b2

As more and more information starts to come to light about the Clipper 
proposal, I become more and more convinced that there is a simple explanation 
for it that does not involve more than the normal amount of governmental 
deviousness.

I think that it is a "trial balloon" whose purpose is to spark serious public 
debate.  No politician wants to sacrifice his or her re-election to back "the 
wrong side" in something that the public actually cares about, however strong 
the pressure from the intelligence community.  The debate surrounding Clipper 
is a way to gather real data on public opinion without putting anything or 
anyone permanently at risk politically.  This could be why it came out of the 
executive branch and not a Congressional committee, for example.  Everyone 
can just point their fingers back at the intelligence agencies, who are used 
to this sort of thing.

Simply asking "experts" on any side of the issue is not going to give an 
accurate view of public opinion.  A credible proposal, however, will get 
people talking about it, and will let the politicians observe just what their 
constituents will and will not be willing to put up with.  They can then use 
that data when they start forming actual policy.

This fits with the reports of Mykotronx being surprised by the announcement, 
the stuff starting to come out of John Gilmore's FOIA requests, the words the 
various announcements have been couched in, and so on.

If this turns out to be the actual purpose of the proposal, I have to give 
them credit: it's working :).


Amanda Walker
Advanced Projects
InterCon Systems Corporation





