Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!olivea!hal.com!decwrl!concert!balsam!canton.cs.unca.edu!roda
From: roda@canton.cs.unca.edu (Richard Roda)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: So What do We Really Want?
Date: 22 Jun 1993 04:48:34 GMT
Organization: University of North Carolina at Asheville
Lines: 52
Message-ID: <2062v2$dfp@balsam.unca.edu>
References: <C906sF.6qx@grebyn.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: canton.cs.unca.edu
X-Newsreader: Tin 1.1 PL3

sgs@grebyn.com (Stephen G. Smith) writes:
: Okay, so nobody likes Clipper.  Even its proponents are saying things
: like "Well, it's better than nothing".  What should we use instead?
: 
: Instead of fussing about how bad Clipper is, why don't we try to come up
: with a functional spec for a better system?  Who knows, maybe some
: enlightened (read: greedy :-) manufacturer will actually build the thing!
: The following contains some of my thoughts on the subject, as a way of
: getting things started.  What kind of a system would *YOU* want to use?
: 
[... Deleted Political Comment ...]
: The basic specifications I see as being relatively noncontroversial:
: 
: 1.  No back doors.  Of any kind.  Period.  This is the concensus from
:     the Clipper debate, held by everybody except Dorothy Demming.
: 
: 2.  All algorithms used must be available for public scrutiny and
:     analysis.
: 
: 3.  Immune from any "brute force" attack, now and for the next (say) 20
:     years.  This lets out, for example, single DES.
: 
: 4.  International.  None of this "USA and Canada only" nonsense. Note
:     that this will probably require the detailed design and manufacture
:     of the system to be outside the US.
: 
: 5.  Under personal control.  This means that I am responsible for my own
:     key security.  Also, I can change my keys at any time.
: 
: 6.  Immune to "man in the middle" attacks.  Near as I can tell, this
:     will mean that we'll have to introduce a "Public Key Certification"
:     agency of some kind.
: 
: 7.  Reasonably easy to use.  We want these things to be used by
:     *everybody*, not just us computer geeks (:-).  Key generation and
:     storage is a problem here, as it will probably need a PC or some
:     such.  Nintendo cartrige? (1/2 :-)

8.  Encryption algorythm implemented in software so that user can update
    when a better algorythm is found or if bugs are found in a current
    version.  A hardware only implementation would have a rather limited
    lifetime.
[... Deleted]

This is the only suggestion I would make to your idea.  I agree with
everything else you wrote 100%.  Lets get to work on this.

--
Richard E. Roda, Computer Science at UNCA.   | Snail Mail:
The opinions expressed above are mine alone. | Richard Roda
PGP v2.2 public key available by E-Mail or   | P.O. Box 8172
finger roda@ivy.cs.unca.edu                  | Asheville, NC  2881
