Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: Let's split sci.crypt...
Message-ID: <strnlghtC924LB.MG@netcom.com>
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <C8ypoA.M33@apricot.co.uk>
Date: Wed, 23 Jun 1993 04:31:58 GMT
Lines: 35

In article <C8ypoA.M33@apricot.co.uk> marcusj@apricot.co.uk (Marcus Jenkins) writes:
>The signal to noise ratio on sci.crypt appears to be getting exponentially
>worse with time.  How about sci.crypt.politics and sci.crypt.anything-else?

There are two separate issues--the desire to have a "pure" forum for crypto
science, and the way to prevent off-that-subject posts.

As to the first, perhaps talk.crypt or crypt.talk or some such would cover
the non-science matters, which go well beyond politics to patent and
property issues, institutional matters (key distribution), etc. etc.

As for the second, the current instance is an example of a general problem
on the .net--how to respond to an off-the-subject post. This is an issue
having many distinctions.
1. On a matter of personal privilege, some think they must respond where a
message was posted, so that their response is seen by the same audience.
2. Often people complain not to the off-the-subject poster, but to the
respondent.
3. People don't always check the newsgroups line when composing a response.
4. People who start a non-germane discussion which springs from a germane
one often don't take the trouble to correctly fill in a "replies to" line.

I don't thing the answer is yet obvious, but believe the onus cannot be put
solely on respondents. If the writers of the first "off the subject" shot
were complained of consistently, it might obviate the chain of responses,
etc. 

Then, there's always the kill file.

David
-- 
David Sternlight         Great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
                         our information, errors and omissions excepted.  


