Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!digex.com!digex.net!not-for-mail
From: steve-b@access.digex.net (Steve Brinich)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Cutting The Cards
Date: 23 Jun 1993 19:29:17 -0400
Organization: Express Access Online Communications, Greenbelt, MD USA
Lines: 43
Message-ID: <20ap0d$109@access.digex.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: access.digex.net

  According to the available information on Clipper, it has an 80-bit key,
which is generated by a deterministic hash of several components, namely:

     1.  A 30-bit "serial number" unique to the chip,

     2.  A number S1 provided by the first escrow agency, and

     3.  A number S2 provided by the second escrow agency.

  Now, anyone with all of these components, and the Clipper key-generation
algorithm, can reconstruct the key to any Clipper chip.

  This means that if the Clipper manufacturers simply program each chip with
-constant- numbers S1 and S2, anyone who is in on this dark secret can
reconstruct the key to any Clipper chip at will.  Even if the serial number
is unavailable for some reason, a search of a 30-bit keyspace is trivial to
an agency with good computer resources.
  The identity and integrity of the escrow agencies is irrelevant.  The trick
can be done without their knowledge or involvement: just provide a nice little
smoke and mirrors demo for the escrow agent who punches in all the S-numbers
while burning the chips with the fixed (in more ways than one!) data.
  Now, I am sure that somebody or other is going to accuse me of being
paranoid, insist that the government would not resort to such underhanded
methods to insure its ability to monitor our communications, etc.  I answer
this with a question:


  What test is available to an average user who has access to two Clipper
chips, their serial numbers, their encrypted output resulting from various
data inputs, and any other information which could be obtained without breaking
the Clipper tamperproofing, that would determine whether or not the two
chips have in fact been programmed with different values for S1 and S2?

  In short, how do we cut the cards to foil this particular method of
stacking the deck?



Steve Brinich
<steve-b@access.digex.com>

 * Never mind MST3K -- what I want to see is C-SPAN3K. *

