Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!charon.cto.citicorp.com!charon.cto.citicorp.com!not-for-mail
From: philip@charon.cto.citicorp.com (Philip Gladstone)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper
Subject: Warrants required for Clipper Wiretaps
Date: 23 Jun 1993 17:53:19 -0400
Organization: Citicorp
Lines: 39
Message-ID: <20ajcf$spr@charon.cto.citicorp.com>
Reply-To: philip@cgin.cto.citicorp.com
NNTP-Posting-Host: charon.cto.citicorp.com
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL6]
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:17497 alt.privacy.clipper:948

According to Lynn McNulty (of NIST) the warrant used to get the (partial)
keys from the escrow agency is the *same* as the warrant to establish the
wiretap. This seems open to abuse as there is no judicial oversight
over the particular keys being extracted from escrow.  

Also, the civilian review of the Skipjack algorithm has started (on Monday).
2 people are from academia, and 3 from private industry. One of the DOE
national labs is represented (but I don't know whether this counts as academia
or private industry). Dorothy Denning is one member (according to her).
McNulty wouldn't reveal any names.

Also, McNulty beleives that escrowed keys would be made available to
foreign law enforcement organizations if requested. The following 
scenario springs to mind:

	French LE to FBI: We have one suspect from the WTC bombing
			  under surveillance in Paris. He uses a
			  clipperphone to communicate. Can we have
			  the keys to chip ID 145632?
	FBI to French LE: Are you working with the French Secret Service
			  who is trying to tap the phones of corporate
			  America? 
	French LE to FBI: NON!
	FBI to French LE: Do you promise that the chip ID
			  145632 really is in Paris and is not in the 
			  phone of <fill in favourite US business leader>?
	French LE to FBI: OUI!
	FBI to French LE: OK - the key is 0b5e7f186ac85e5fb934.

I'm not trying to pick on the french, but one of the purposes of the
Clipper (sorry Key Escrow) Chip is to protect against foreign
commercial espionage.

Philip.

-- 
Philip Gladstone - Consultant
Citicorp Global Information Network
I don't speak for Citicorp. I presume that somebody else does!
