Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!linac!att!att-out!walter!qualcom.qualcomm.com!unix.ka9q.ampr.org!karn
From: karn@unix.ka9q.ampr.org (Phil Karn)
Subject: Re: Maybe they don't plan to outlaw secure crypto.
Message-ID: <1993Jun25.062956.11222@qualcomm.com>
Sender: news@qualcomm.com
Nntp-Posting-Host: unix.ka9q.ampr.org
Reply-To: karn@servo.qualcomm.com
Organization: Qualcomm, Inc
References: <C906sF.6qx@grebyn.com> <C92xHC.6Dt@dcs.ed.ac.uk> <WCS.93Jun23213500@rainier.ATT.COM>
Date: Fri, 25 Jun 1993 06:29:56 GMT
Lines: 70
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:17544 alt.privacy.clipper:970

In article <WCS.93Jun23213500@rainier.ATT.COM>, wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (Bill Stewart +1-908-949-0705) writes:
|> With enduser-to-enduser communication, the problem of compatibility is
|> also important [...]
|> I'd guess that approved wiretapped products will probably be exportable,
|> but products using software encryption can be made overseas and imported,
|> or made in the US with Flash-EPROM firmware, and export products
|> shipped to Switzerland or Bulgaria to get written-there-to-US-specs
|> firmware installed, so the free-market encryption products still do ok.
[...]

I tried to make this exact point at the CPSR crypto conference. As I
understand them, the FBI/NSA seems to agree with us that it's
impossible to put the strong crypto genie completely back into the
bottle.  But they still seem to think it useful to try as hard as they
can to keep it out of mass-market consumer items for as long as
possible.  As we know, this is not unrealistic, given export controls
and other unreasoning threats of legal force.

Their logic seems to be that only a small fraction of the population
knows how to write cryptographic software. Ergo, all you have to do is
to lean on a relatively few manufacturers and crypto will never become
widespread.

I held up one of our new CD-7000 dual-mode FM/CDMA cellular phones and
pointed to the connector on the bottom. Through it you can, if you
figure out how, reburn the flash EPROM inside the phone with any
software you like, including encryption software. (Caveat: flash
EPROMs are still relatively expensive, and production versions of the
phone may go to mask ROM, which is much cheaper.)

Without the cooperation of the base station, you would have to encrypt
on an end-to-end basis, peering with a suitably equipped secure phone
on the land side. (You would need to place a "data" call so you get a
modem instead of a vocoder at the base station.)  On the other hand,
our system as currently implemented has a transparent "mobile to
mobile" mode, originally intended to prevent tandem vocoding (which
degrades voice quality) that would let two similarly programmed cell
phones communicate securely.

Anyway, my point was the unstoppable nature of crypto software, and
the increasingly powerful and general purpose nature of modern
hardware.  Specialized crypto hardware has to be manufactured, and
this is done by manufacturers that you can lean on.  But crypto
software, especially software that runs on widely available general
purpose hardware, is an entirely different story.

You need only ONE smart and sufficiently motivated person (a Tsutomu
Shimomura, for example) to produce "enhanced" firmware, after which it
can be easily disseminated and copied ad infinitum.  Consider the
after-market EPROMs available for various cars with computer
controlled ignition systems, and also the black-market EPROMs for
Videocipher boxes. Like it or not, they're used by the hundreds of
thousands by people who know next to nothing about programming.

This is the key to meaningful, widespread privacy. The mainstream
vendors will never be allowed to do it, so the only alternative is to
adapt their products with after-market software.

Which raises the specter of a law banning cell phones and other
mass-market digital communication devices that can be "readily
modified" to support encryption. The "lever" will almost certainly be
the requirement to get FCC "type acceptance" -- the same hook
currently being used to ban cellular scanners.

And as we've already seen with scanners, the hopelessly vague phrase
"readily modified" won't dissuade them from trying, no matter how much
it hurts both the industry and the consumer. Nor will it dissuade people
from modifying their phones. The battle will go on. Sigh.

Phil
