Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!darwin.sura.net!newsserver.jvnc.net!news.edu.tw!news!ccds3.ntu.edu.tw!cctwin!jeremy
From: jeremy@cctwin.ee.ntu.edu.tw (Jeremy Anderson)
Subject: Re: Is the law an ASS?
Message-ID: <1993Jun25.111535.16581@ccds3.ntu.edu.tw>
Sender: usenet@ccds3.ntu.edu.tw (USENET PROXY ACCOUNT)
Nntp-Posting-Host: cctwin.ee.ntu.edu.tw
Organization: NTUTaiwan
References: <25792@mindlink.bc.ca>
Date: Fri, 25 Jun 1993 11:15:35 GMT
Lines: 37

One thing I constantly see overlooked in these discussions on the export laws
is that there is the laws which are on the books (numerous and absurd) and the
law as it can actually be enforced by an impartial judge in a court of law
(less numerous, though perhaps almost as absurd)

I'm reminded of a law that was on the books for many years in my home state
(Washington) called "cohabitation" which stated to the effect that two
unmarried people of the opposite sex couldn't live with each other.  This law
was applied in the form that if a couple of (pick your appropriate unaccepted
social group) moved in a neighborhood, the local police officer or sherrif
would pay a visit, read this silly law, and tell them they had 48 hours to get
out of his jurdisiction or be prosecuted.  The law was struck off the books
sometime in the mid-70's.  The number of people prosecuted under this statute 
in the 50 years it was on the books?  Z-E-R-O.

My feeling, based on the professional opinion of more than one lawyer, and the
experiences of a friend of mine (Carl Nicolai, you'll find him in Banford's
"The Puzzle Palace") is that the ITAR statutes (as regards crypto) are rather
the same.  I have never heard of anyone being prosecuted in an open court for
violation of these laws. (we can fantasize about "star chambers" all day if
you like, but I'd rather not).  The govt. CAN lean on you a lot, and can make
your life highly uncomfortable, but will they really prosecute you?  Probably
not.  How uncomfortable will they make your life?  Well, how much money is it
worth for the government to spend tormenting you?  In the case of a person who
hands out copies of PGP or RIPEM, probably not much.  In the case of a company
like RSA (who also has government contracts at stake, I'm sure) probably enough
to make sure they behave well.

My 2 fen for the day.
--
Jeremy Anderson                                     jeremy@cctwin.ee.ntu.edu.tw
post: Hsinhai Road, Section 2, lane 131, Alley 3    tel: 886-2-735-0537
      Building 3, Second Floor			    home: never
      Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C.

PGP 2.3 key available on request
Don't know what PGP is?  Ask me!
