Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper
Path: msuinfo!caen!usenet.coe.montana.edu!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: Warrants required for Clipper Wiretaps
Message-ID: <strnlghtC96pLw.C5u@netcom.com>
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <20ajcf$spr@charon.cto.citicorp.com> <strnlghtC93qv6.8np@netcom.com> <bernardi-250693140214@alkwarismi.mathp6.jussieu.fr>
Date: Fri, 25 Jun 1993 15:56:20 GMT
Lines: 51
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:17558 alt.privacy.clipper:972


Dominique Bernardi, writing from France, takes my statement "You can't trust
the French, period." out of context. To avoid a long argument about whether
this was or wasn't out of context, let me apologize at once for not more
carefully hedging the sentence to the context we were discussing, and to
express extreme regret for any upset this statement might have caused any
French colleagues.

Now to the matter:

When it comes to U.S. economic interests vs. French interests, Bernardi
would be quite right not to trust the NSA to protect French interests, not
because of any proven activities, but on simple general political
principles. (I don't say there haven't been proven activities--just that
it's irrelevant to whether Bernardi should trust the NSA as far as French
interests are concerned.)

Similarly, an American would be foolish to trust his economic interests to
the honor of the French intelligence services--they are French and their
duty is to France, not the U.S.

But there are certain commonly accepted norms in international behavior. It
is not presently acceptable behavior to search the luggage of foreign
businessmen who are not suspected of criminal wrongdoing for economic
information while they are in your country. We think of that sort of
behavior as typical of the KGB in the old Soviet Union, not of a
freedom-loving democratic society. It is not presently acceptable behavior
for a government's cryptologic agencies to crack a foreign non-defense
company's economic traffic and pass it on to that country's private
non-defense companies. Of all people, the French, the "fathers of diplomacy"
should know that.

Yet French intelligence services have been caught doing just that. This is
no anomaly--we also recall their behavior with respect to peaceful
protestors of atomic tests.

Thus, for good or ill, the French government is used as an example of the
need for highly secure crypto to protect American economic traffic of
a competitive character, and should the French government have any access to
Clipper keys, many of us feel all bets on Clipper would have to be off.

I'd sympathize with a Frenchman making a symmetric argument about crypto
used by French citizens to which the U.S. government could get escrowed key
access. My point is not anti-French but simple prudence.

David
-- 
David Sternlight         Great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
                         our information, errors and omissions excepted.  


