Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!uunet!charon.cto.citicorp.com!charon.cto.citicorp.com!not-for-mail
From: philip@charon.cto.citicorp.com (Philip Gladstone)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper
Subject: Re: Warrants required for Clipper Wiretaps
Date: 25 Jun 1993 09:16:23 -0400
Organization: Citicorp
Lines: 34
Message-ID: <20etr7$236@charon.cto.citicorp.com>
References: <16BF7143D3.C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu>
Reply-To: philip@cgin.cto.citicorp.com
NNTP-Posting-Host: charon.cto.citicorp.com
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL6]
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:17552 alt.privacy.clipper:971

John Kelsey (C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu) wrote:
:    Hmmm.  Even if no government but the US is able to access escrowed
: keys in US-sold phones, the existence of foreign intelligence agencies
: seems to endanger Clipper.  Surely, French intelligence, or even Abu
: Nidal, can find *one* crooked police department/court, and get whatever
: warrants are necessary.  Indeed, large criminal organizations and foreign
: intelligence agencies are virtually *certain* to have people on the inside
: of the FBI.  This seems *much* more theatening a weakness to me than
: the threat of NSA leaving trapdoors in the Clipper algorithm.  (Probably,
: this is true because I can't see the Clipper algorithm, and even if I
: could, I doubt that *I* am going to catch the weakness that the whole
: academic crypto community misses.)

This was the risk that I spotted when McNulty did his presentation (at the
CSI conference in Washinbgton DC on Tue 6/22/93). There does not seem to be
any obvious way to ensure that the keys obtained under any particular
wiretap warrant are actually the keys that correspond to the phones
being wiretapped. 

I can see that the only way around this might be to register the ID of
each phone, and then have some check to see that the IDs of the phone 
being accessed correspond (in some way) to the wiretap warrant. But this
leads to all sorts of other problems (not informing registry when a 
phone moves etc.)

But I guess we will all have to wait and see what the final arrangements
are, and try not to speculate on what they might be! Based on past history
there will a great deal of controversy once these are announced.

Philip
-- 
Philip Gladstone - Consultant
Citicorp Global Information Network
I don't speak for Citicorp. I presume that somebody else does!
