Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!wupost!mont!mizzou1.missouri.edu!C445585
From: C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu (John Kelsey)
Subject: David Sternlight's question re: PGP/Clipper strength
Message-ID: <16BF813C40.C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu>
Sender: news@mont.cs.missouri.edu
Nntp-Posting-Host: mizzou1.missouri.edu
Organization: University of Missouri
References: <TSOS.458.740996577@uni-duesseldorf.de> <strnlghtC96nM3.HM6@netcom.com>
Date: Fri, 25 Jun 93 22:29:16 CDT
Lines: 45
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:17578 alt.security.pgp:3382

In article <strnlghtC96nM3.HM6@netcom.com>
strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:
 
>Putting it another way, if I assume the French cryptologic service can break
>PGP, does this proposal affect that capability in any way? (I accept the
>assertion that it does not weaken PGP and thus is neutral or better in the
>face of those who cannnot currently break PGP.)
 
   Hmmm.  It seems like this would revolve around what you mean by "break
PGP."  You could "break" PGP in several ways:
 
1.  Find a way to break RSA, or at least the specific implementation of RSA
    in PGP.
2.  Find a way to break IDEA.
3.  Find a useable bias in the way RSA or IDEA keys are generated by PGP.
4.  Plant a weakness in copies of PGP going around.
etc.
 
   The skipjack algorithm may be stronger than IDEA, or it may not.  Un-
fortunately, many of the best people in the world to evaluate that are
probably working for NSA, which means that they will likely be making
public statements for their own purposes, which are political as well as
technical.  Likewise, many others are working for some other nation's
intelligence agency.  If you knew that skipjack had a usable hole, you
might want it generally used.
 
   A general way to tell whether the nation's intelligence agencies believe
(say) IDEA is strong would be to see whether they allow its use for
important trafic.  Of course, they may not make public what they use for
their important trafic, or may use an in-house algorithm simply because they
fear some sort of designed-in trapdoor.  You can go into endless loops of
paranoia on this sort of thing.  (Do you *know* Lai and Massey weren't working
for Swiss/Chinese/US/Israeli intelligence?)
 
   Anyway, is RSA a better way of doing key exchange than Diffie-Hellman?
I don't know that there's a certain answer, although I feel more comfortable
with RSA.  There are ways of mis-implementing both that leave you with poor
security, that are widely known.  Probably, there are other, as yet not well
known ways of doing the same.  Does PGP happen to misuse RSA in one of these
ways?  Will Capstone misuse DH in one of these ways?  Good questions....
 
>David Sternlight         Great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
>                         our information, errors and omissions excepted.
 
  --John Kelsey
