Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!news.umbc.edu!haven.umd.edu!cs.umd.edu!uchinews!cdsmail!timbuk.cray.com!mmc.mmmg.com!sctc.com!smith
From: smith@sctc.com (Rick Smith)
Subject: Re: Bletchley Park machines on view!
Message-ID: <1994Apr29.204446.18362@sctc.com>
Organization: SCTC
References: <hk8ujld.lharnisch@delphi.com> <Cox5Jt.E61@aib.com> <gregb.767455421@gemini.den.mmc.com>
Date: Fri, 29 Apr 1994 20:44:46 GMT
Lines: 36

I dropped in at the NSA's crypt museum briefly the other day.  I've
seen pictures published of most of the crypto stuff there, in Kahn's
books, mostly.  It's essentially one large room, probably a converted
dining room from an old motel. Here's what I saw:

1) A display case of the oldest books on crypto they had in the
NSA libraries, mid 1500s to mid 1800s. You could see enough to
appreciate the age of the typography, but that's about it.

2) radio detection and interception stuff from WW I or II.

3) some photos and a few relics concerning NSA computers, including
what looked like a decommissioned Cray 1 CPU. It looked like a real
one with a couple of panels replaced by plexiglass to show the
innards, but it may have been a detailed product mockup.

4) enemy crypto machines: several German models, a WW II Russian
machine, and some Japanese stuff, including a fragment of a Purple
machine from the ruins of Japan's Berlin embassy.

The high point was probably the *working* Enigma machine they had on
display. You could change the rotor settings, type out messages, and
watch the encrypted characters light up. More fun than my Royal
typewriter, and about the same size.

The biggest advantage of *seeing* the stuff rather than looking at
photos is that I got a better idea of size for these things. Otherwise
the museum didn't do much to enhance my technical understanding. They
are planning to open expanded exhibits this summer that include
interactive displays.

I was also the zillionth person to ask "Why don't you have a gift shop
or book store or something?" They're looking into it.

Rick.
smith@sctc.com     roseville, minnesota
