Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!wupost!gumby!yale!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Subject: EPIC
Message-ID: <940430213907.603822@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Date: Sat, 30 Apr 1994 21:39:00 GMT
Lines: 57


David Sternlight writes:

>I note with some interest that some of the CPSR parties involved have now
>left CPSR to run their own organization. The announcement is unclear on the
>dynamics involved in precipitating the separation, and the events
>surrounding the CPSR petition may be entirely unrelated.

Marc Rotenberg, David Banisar, and David Sobol " are forming the
Electronic Privacy Information Center,
EPIC, a public interest research center in Washington, DC.  It is going
to focus public attention on emerging privacy issues relating to the
National Information Infrastructure, such as the Clipper Chip, the
Digital Telephony Proposal, medical record privacy, and the sale of
consumer data.

CPSR is one of EPIC's sponsors and will continue to work with them."

The quote is from the CPSR announcement of EPIC.  It does not seem to me
that they have left under a cloud.  The other founding organization is
the Fund for Constitutional Government (FCG).

It seems to me that the participation of the FCG recognizes that freedom
is indivisable, that privacy is an essential part of freedom, and the
right of the citizen to private communications is essence of privacy.  

The very ability of the government to snoop on its citizens is
fundamentally chilling, not to say abusive.  The insistence of this
government on this ability is threatening.  Their obvious determination
and the bullying tactics that they have resorted to are intended to
frighten.  That the overwhelming majority of the traffic on this network
is hostile to their proposals suggests to me that the frightening impact
is intended.  

I do not find Mr Sternlight's defense of their motives comforting or
reassuring.  It seems to me that if their motives were only half so
innocent as Mr. Sternlight would have us believe, they would back off in
the face of the overwhelming democratic opposition that their
initiatives have provoked. 

William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104; New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
1-0-ATT-0-700-WMURRAY; WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL














