Newsgroups: sci.math,sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.security.pgp,alt.security.ripem,comp.securit
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: RSA-129
Message-ID: <strnlghtCp3zu5.5C7@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <explorer.767736971@tigger.cc.iastate.edu> <iuamLc2w165w@voxbox.norden1.com> <2pv3au$old@linus.mitre.org>
Date: Sun, 1 May 1994 05:42:04 GMT
Lines: 48
Xref: msuinfo sci.math:70914 sci.crypt:26685 alt.security:16209 alt.security.pgp:12213 alt.security.ripem:744

In article <2pv3au$old@linus.mitre.org>,
Robert D. Silverman <bs@gauss.mitre.org> wrote:
>until you collect a sufficient number of relations. The rate at which you
>produce relations depends on the size of the number and the size of the chosen
>factor base. I knew (and had publically stated) 4 years ago that RSA-129
>would take 5000 MIPS-years to do.

Since you seem to know what you are talking about, and nobody has yet done
the parametric analysis I've been suggesting since before RSA-129 fell, how
about a simplified pair of result points?

How long would it take to crack a 512k bit key RSA, and a 1024 bit key, under
the following assumptions (taking account of what's been done with RSA-129):

1. A single, highly parallel processor is put on the job full-time.

2. The machine is composed of the simplest possible arithmetic chips that
   can do this particular job, and is equipped with the necessary memory.

3. The chips are the fastest known at the current state of the art.

4. The budget for the machine is $50 million.

5. Design and manufacture takes advantage of tradeoffs between cost of
   circuitry, automated production techniques,  speed of circuitry and
   number of parallel elements such that funds are allocated to each in
   a way that will produce a machine what will crack the keys in the 
   shortest calendar time.

6. The machine works on one key at a time, unless it turns out that there
   are design techniques permitting it to work on more than one key without
   increasing the calendar time to crack one key.

7. It is assumed that the machine's customers have the ability to fund 
   a special-purpose fabrication facility if that will produce a more
   effective budgetary allocation with respect to ultimate solution time.
   Such funds to come out of the $50 million, except that any existing
   special facilities already developed by, say, ARPA may be used at
   operating costs only.

8. It is assumed that the algorithms used are the best currently known,
   but no secret algorithmic breakthroughs are assumed.

I hope I haven't left anything out. I think this states the problem of
concern for many of us accurately. The result of the analysis will provide
some useful benchmarks for thinking about it.

David
