Newsgroups: sci.math,sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.security.pgp,alt.security.ripem,comp.securit
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!uknet!EU.net!uunet!cds8604!Cadence.COM!lou
From: lou@Cadence.COM (Louis K. Scheffer)
Subject: Re: RSA-129
Message-ID: <lou.767823641@cadence.com>
Sender: usenet@Cadence.COM (Usenet News)
Nntp-Posting-Host: caber.cadence.com
Organization: Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
References: <explorer.767736971@tigger.cc.iastate.edu> <iuamLc2w165w@voxbox.norden1.com> <2pv3au$old@linus.mitre.org> <strnlghtCp3zu5.5C7@netcom.com>
Date: Sun, 1 May 1994 20:20:41 GMT
Lines: 54
Xref: msuinfo sci.math:70972 sci.crypt:26731 alt.security:16245 alt.security.pgp:12268 alt.security.ripem:769

In <strnlghtCp3zu5.5C7@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:
>How long would it take to crack a 512k bit key RSA, and a 1024 bit key, under
>the following assumptions (taking account of what's been done with RSA-129):

>[Algorithm, parallel processor, etc. points deleted...]

>7. It is assumed that the machine's customers have the ability to fund 
>   a special-purpose fabrication facility if that will produce a more
>   effective budgetary allocation with respect to ultimate solution time.
>   Such funds to come out of the $50 million, except that any existing
>   special facilities already developed by, say, ARPA may be used at
>   operating costs only.

As a CAD software vendor who has sold IC design software to the NSA for over
10 years, I think I can comment on this point, which is basically "What if the
NSA has the ability to fabricate chips that work better than the commercial
ones?"

This is very unlikely.  The lastest generation of commercial
fabrication facilities costs roughly $1,000,000,000 each.  In the areas
where advances would really help (memory speed, memory size, maybe
processor speed) the commercial market is already spending far more than
50 million per year, and more than ARPA and similar agencies.

In fact, traditionally the NSA fabrication facilities have been quite
a ways behind the state of the art.  This is due to three factors.  The
first, most obvious one, is that it takes a lot of money and time to keep
a state of the art fab running, even by NSA standards.  Second, the NSA
has to worry about extra problems, like building tamper resistant chips.

The third problem is that it is very
difficult to staff a production line with people who have NSA class
clearances.  A very high fraction of the knowledgable people are foreign
citizens, have close family living under opposing governments, or are not
interested in going through the hassle of getting a security clearance.
This is a particular problem on a production basis, since unlike commercial
plants, if a key employee quits, or gets run over by a truck, they can't
simply hire an expert on a consulting basis for a few months while they
find a permanent replacement.

Finally, there is another piece of evidence that the NSA fab capabilities
are not far, if at all, beyond the state of the commercial art.  The NSA,
like everyone else, needs CAD software to design these chips.  As a CAD
vendor, I know that there are a lot of things we will need to do to allow
the design of (say) 0.2 micron chips.  The NSA, however, tends to use off
the shelf design software.  It's also unlikely that the have in-house
software for the purpose, since we watch the Universities pretty closely,
and the NSA hires few, if any, CAD development specialists.

In short, I think we can safely assume that the technology available
to the NSA in the chip fabrication area is about the same as the commercial
state of the art.

   -Lou Scheffer
