Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.cpsr.talk,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt,talk.politics.theory,alt.politics.usa.constitution
Path: msuinfo!agate!darkstar.UCSC.EDU!news.hal.COM!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: "Open Sesame"--MacNeil-Lehrer Report on Clipper
Message-ID: <strnlghtCp611q.9nw@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <gradyCoz6A5.Hwv@netcom.com> <2q0mp5$n27@vixen.cso.uiuc.edu> <strnlghtCp5Cnz.HF2@netcom.com> <2q1h4j$h3q@vixen.cso.uiuc.edu>
Distribution: inet
Date: Mon, 2 May 1994 08:03:26 GMT
Lines: 49
Xref: msuinfo talk.politics.crypto:5036 comp.org.cpsr.talk:435 comp.org.eff.talk:33104 alt.privacy.clipper:4176 sci.crypt:26749 talk.politics.theory:31257 alt.politics.usa.constitution:7487


C.E. Petit quibbles about "attribution" to get out of a blunder.

"A" accused me of behavior "X". He did so without evidence or citation.  He
ascribed the views "X" to me without proof. In fact, not only have I not
taken the position "X", but I have taken its opposite on several occasions
in these newsgroups.

Petit then tries to gainsay the above with a "pot calling the kettle black"
argument about my failure to attribute. Not only does this not gainsay the
above, it is itself false, as I point out, because I not only cite sources
in my messages (as in "In message thus and so, so and so says:") but also I
quote the relevant material with the usual ">".

"A" (o.k., Austern) did neither. He did not cite specific messages of mine
in with I took position "X" but also didn't quote any such positions. Thus I
was not a pot calling the kettle black, thought the kettle certainly was
black.

Petit, now hoist by his own petard, attempts to get out of it with a farrago
about "attribution" which has nothing to do with the issues above.

He waves his law review credentials in the air as if they could excuse his
blunder. I have distinguished editorial credentials myself, but they are
irrelevant to the simple, straightforward, and clean situation above, as are
Petit's.

Petit then attempts to compound his smoke-blowing exercise with an attempt
at a dictionary argument. Unfortunately for him, I HAVE a dictionary and
have used it:

"attribution: the ascribing of a work to a particular author" Merriam
Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, Tenth Edition. 

Since I ascribe messages I'm commenting on to their authors (using the usual
newsgroup message convention) his statement that I don't attribute is
blatantly false on its face, and massively so since almost every response of
mine to another contains such attribution.

Austern, in contrast, makes a bald accusation--that I said "so many negative
things about the whole idea that public debate can and should influence
national policy" without a single quotation, much less attribution of such
quotations to me. As readers who have been following my messages know, the
accusation is false on its face.

David



