Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!usc!nic-nac.CSU.net!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!xmission!xmission!not-for-mail
From: snowhare@xmission.com (snowhare)
Newsgroups: sci.math,sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.security.pgp,alt.security.ripem,comp.security.misc,alt.privacy
Subject: Re: RSA-129
Followup-To: sci.math,sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.security.pgp,alt.security.ripem,comp.security.misc,alt.privacy
Date: 3 May 1994 00:58:30 -0600
Organization: High Mountain Warren
Lines: 68
Message-ID: <2q4smm$kih@xmission.xmission.com>
References: <2q21fr$mld@panix2.panix.com> <2q3f99$pic@fido.asd.sgi.com> <2q3h9k$pb8@linus.mitre.org> <2q4403$pic@fido.asd.sgi.com> <strnlghtCp7L26.3u7@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: xmission
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
Xref: msuinfo sci.math:71111 sci.crypt:26832 alt.security:16320 alt.security.pgp:12401 alt.security.ripem:832 comp.security.misc:9684 alt.privacy:14925

David Sternlight wrote on Tue, 3 May 1994 04:13:18 GMT:
: In article <2q4403$pic@fido.asd.sgi.com>,
: John Jack Repenning <jackr@dblues.wpd.sgi.com> wrote:

: >architecture allows it."  Also, I think it's _un_reasonable to suppose
: >that the government has more advanced capabilities here than the
: >private sector

: I think this to be wrong. To my personal knowledge until I left defense work
: in 1960 to get my Ph.D. in Economics, the government had more advanced
: machines than the unclassified private sector did, often by funding secret
: projects in the private sector. Can you say "ARPA"? "USAF TOD Program"? You
: don't even have to whisper NSA or CIA.

: I know of no reason, given the economics of electronic technology, that this
: shouldn't still be true.

Bzzzt. You nailed it right on the head: ECONOMICS. Prior to 1960 - 
computers were not particularly powerful economic factors. It was not 
until about the time of the introduction of the IBM 360 and widespread 
use of high level languages that economic factors began to drive the 
private use and development of computers and their underlying 
technologies. ENIAC was goverment funded and developed and had to be 
rewired to be reprogrammed. The IBM 360 was pure private enterprise (and 
cost MORE than the development of the atomic bomb). With their explosive 
growth in use, first of mini-computers and then of mass produced 
micro-computers the private sector put the full power of the western 
free enterprise system behind the development and advancement of 
computer technology. The results have been spectacular. And driven entirely 
by economics. There is a quote from the computer world: If you want to do 
something for half as much, you have to do it four times as fast.

Having worked both for the US military and for the private sector I can 
definitely tell you that the top of the line high tech the US government 
uses is all spin-off from the civilian sector. 

The stuff the military uses for its day to day operations, that 
was built specifically for the government, uses 20 year old technology. I 
personally maintained computer systems that used CORE memory and even 
discrete transistors. These are not systems that were installed 20 years 
ago. Some of them were installed less than 4 years ago and are the STANDARD 
equipment that I worked on as recently as last year. And checking into 
their backgrounds - they are all ruggedized versions of civilian 
computers. Twenty year old civilian computers with a fraction of the 
capability of a modern micro-computer.

The military's idea of a new system is usually ten years OR MORE behind 
the civilian equivalents. There are other bizarrities as well - such as 
the standard MIL-188C serial line interfaces that are 100% identical to 
RS-232-C: except they have the voltage levels reversed and so the 
military has to buy special adaptor boxes to tie their installed 
computers to modern computer equipment.

It is hard to explain just how far behind the curve the US government is 
over all, technologically speaking. People have a hard time believing that 
the vaunted US high tech military is 20 years behind civilian 
technology. But it is true. The highest tech equipment I used on the ship 
was ALL off the shelf civilian stuff. From GPS satellite navigation on 
CD-ROMed maps to the ships telephone system (a standard motel PBX) - if 
it was at all modern - it was dead certain to be civilian technology   
straight out of the box.
 
There was more computer power on people's desks in the form of IBM PC's 
than in all the ships battle computers put together.

Take it from a recent military electronics tech - the high tech military 
is pretty darn low tech.

