Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!nic-nac.CSU.net!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!xmission!xmission!not-for-mail
From: snowhare@xmission.com (snowhare)
Newsgroups: sci.math,sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.security.pgp,alt.security.ripem,comp.security.misc,alt.privacy
Subject: Re: RSA-129
Followup-To: sci.math,sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.security.pgp,alt.security.ripem,comp.security.misc,alt.privacy
Date: 3 May 1994 09:48:51 -0600
Organization: High Mountain Warren
Lines: 189
Message-ID: <2q5rp3$2g6@xmission.xmission.com>
References: <2q21fr$mld@panix2.panix.com> <2q4403$pic@fido.asd.sgi.com> <strnlghtCp7L26.3u7@netcom.com> <2q4smm$kih@xmission.xmission.com> <strnlghtCp82s2.9I4@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: xmission
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
Xref: msuinfo sci.math:71141 sci.crypt:26858 alt.security:16337 alt.security.pgp:12426 alt.security.ripem:839 comp.security.misc:9699 alt.privacy:14944

David Sternlight wrote on Tue, 3 May 1994 10:36:02 GMT:
: In article <2q4smm$kih@xmission.xmission.com>,
: snowhare <snowhare@xmission.com> wrote:
: >: shouldn't still be true.
: >
: >Bzzzt. You nailed it right on the head: ECONOMICS. Prior to 1960 - 
: >computers were not particularly powerful economic factors.

: If you think this you have never visited the IBM factories between 1956 and
: 1960.

Sorry - they still were not the factors they are today. Not by orders of 
magnitude.

And by your own admission you are basing YOUR beliefs on information that 
is 3 and 1/2 DECADES out of date. Of course I never visited them between 
1956 and 1960. I wasn't born. Neither were 80+% of those working in 
computers today. You are basing your ideas on things that haven't been true 
in decades.

:  It was not 
: >until about the time of the introduction of the IBM 360 and widespread 
: >use of high level languages that economic factors began to drive the 
: >private use and development of computers and their underlying 
: >technologies.

: Computers far more powerful than the 360 were in use in government
: facilities prior to IBM's coming out with it.

Yes - as one of a kinds. EARLY high end computer development ( < 1970) was 
government driven. After 1970, even the supercomputers were market driven. 
There are reasons that the NSA buys CIVILIAN supercomputers now-a-days. 
They blow the doors off inhouse development by the government.

: > With their explosive 
: >growth in use, first of mini-computers and then of mass produced 
: >micro-computers the private sector put the full power of the western 
: >free enterprise system behind the development and advancement of 
: >computer technology.

: No. Mass produced microcomputers were always way behind the state of the art
: of computer technology. The thing that was wonderful about them was that
: "reasonable" computers could be made very cheaply and used by masses of
: people.

Of course they are behind the state of the art - about 3-4 years. 
Compared with the governments 15-20.

: > The results have been spectacular. And driven entirely 
: >by economics. There is a quote from the computer world: If you want to do 
: >something for half as much, you have to do it four times as fast.

: This is post hoc ergo propter hoc nonsense. Next you'll be telling us that
: the rooster's crowing makes the sun rise.

Bullshit.

: >Having worked both for the US military and for the private sector I can 
: >definitely tell you that the top of the line high tech the US government 
: >uses is all spin-off from the civilian sector. 

: This is totally and completely false. Your experience, as shown below,
: consists of working as a tech on battle-robust ship's computers. In this
: discussion we're talking about stuff in the basements of the NSA, GCHQ, the
: French, Japanese, etc. They are far more advanced than most military "line"
: hardware. Can you say "ARPA"? I thought not.

Know something strange? The ships "battle-robust ship's computers" broke 
30-100 times as often as the ship's off the shelf PCs and workstations. And 
cost many times more to repair. Replacing a single film memory module 
holding about 16K words of memory cost THOUSANDS. Replacing an *entire* 
PC cost less. 

I only had 3 PCs out of 25 installed, go completely down four years - one 
because my boss plugged a printer that fried one computer into another 
computer. The ships main battle computers (Three "ruggedized" UNIVAC 
systems) went completely down dozens of times during the same time frame. 
Very typical figures fleetwide. We kept getting accolades from 
inspectors about how well maintained our systems were compared with other 
ships. "Best we've seen" was the refrain.

The phenomenal failure rate probably had something to do with the use of 
very nearly discrete components in the military hardware. I think the 
BOARD count came out to over 400 boards. Not components - boards.

And its *D*ARPA. Keep up with your acronyms. Lest you look like you base 
your talk on severely outdated information. 

: I wouldn't expect my gardener to be familiar with the latest in gene
: splicing in agriculture either, but he'd have the brains not to draw
: conclusions about the state of agricultural science from cleaning up my yard
: waste. It would be good if maintenance technicians understood that they
: weren't advanced design electronics engineers.

: You obviously haven't seen the good stuff. I have, both in my work with
: defense contractors, and later as a consultant.

I've seen good stuff - It was all of the shelf civilian technology. The 
military stuff never seemed to come together. The military still uses 
VACUUM tubes and electro-mechanical tuning in radio receivers...

: >The military's idea of a new system is usually ten years OR MORE behind 
: >the civilian equivalents.

: This is one of the most bizarre statements I've read in a long time. One of
: my clients, the Hughes Aircraft Company, puts on an annual demonstration of
: their semi-classified hardware, and it's so exciting it makes one's hair
: curl. As to their classified stuff, deponent sayeth not.

: What's more, this is also true for non-computer military electronics.
: Compared to the civilian stuff, modern military phased-array surveillance
: radar is a wonder. Electro-optical systems would make your mind boggle. The
: latest satellite technology is simply impossible to imagine.

Phased array? OH! You mean that *25 year old* technology installed on 
ships using banks of UYK-7 computers to perform the same task any 
80386 PC could do. Breaks routinely - in expensive ways. Can't be used in 
all kind of situations. Maintainence nightmare. Unbelievable amounts 
of down time. Deliberately based on *older* technology during the design 
phases. Phased arrays as used in the military are antique pieces of 
expensive junk. The civilians have no particular interest in them and so 
the technology remains military driven. It shows. Badly.

Electro-optical systems - adequate. Unreliable. But adequate. Experience 
here. I've worked with the top of the line in them. The cooling 
requirements are obscene and the MTBF is VERY low. But they are 
reasonably state of the art. Not any better than the civilian state of 
the art - just current.

Impossible to imagine satellite tech? Try again. CONGRESS crippled the 
civilian imaging industry by law. Of course - the overseas people then 
began selling images back to the US at twice the resolution (the legal 
limit set by European governments)... Civilian satellite imaging was 
crippled by the government - not by technological superiority of the 
NSA. It is EASY to compute the theoretical diffraction limits of things 
like the NSA surveillance sats based just on their size. They aren't 
that much better than what the civilians could easily do - if not 
prevented by active government *interference*.

And the military is LEASING communications circuits on civilian 
satellites because the military ones keep dying. To bad the military never 
figured out how to efficiently move information via satellite. Way 
underutilized bandwidth. But then what do you expect from people who 
think that 2400 BPS, with no error correction, over satellite channels, is 
a *high speed* data link and an efficient use of resources...

If that is your idea of high tech...

: What is true is that for some kinds of computing, mass-produced civilian PCs
: are much cheaper than ruggedized military designs and for some applications
: are giving defense contractors a hard time. But we're not talking about that
: when we talk about cutting edge cryptanalytic hardware.

Correction - for virtually every kind of computing, mass-produced civilian
computers are cheaper, more reliable and much faster. However they face 
uphill battles being accepted in government because they aren't 
"MILSPEC". By the time a computer is approved and tinkered with to be 
"MILSPEC" - it is 10 years out of date. By the time it makes it through 
the acquisition process, it is another 7-10 years old. When the people 
in the fleet see it for the very  first time - it is almost 20 years 
old. Those core memory based systems installed from 1980-1990 were the 
NEW systems. I only wish I were joking. My ship got 7 of them in 1991 - 
as part of a "state of the art" system. The "fast" hardwired 
communications between these systems that were mounted only inches from 
each other ran at a "blazing" 20-50 kbps using 32 bit parallel data 
transport. Oooo. Pinch me. Off the shelf ethernet systems run 100 mbps. 
And doesn't take dozens of cables thicker than my thumb for each computer.

The one thing that struck me again and again and again while working for 
the military was how incredibly far *behind* the civilian technology it was.
The exceptions were VERY far and few between. And those cases were uniformly 
where the military simply borrowed the civilian tech straight across.

The military has recognized its inability to get modern technology to its 
people and has started using a rapid system for moving civilian tech to 
the end users by BYPASSING virtually the entire procurement system. It now 
takes only 4 years to get some virtually unmodified civilian systems to 
the fleet. They did it by not bothering at all with milspec and just 
letting systems integrators grab off the shelf technology and solve the 
problem any way they wanted to. The systems cost 1/10th of what the 
standard mil systems do - and fly rings around them at higher reliablities.

Those almost unmodified (they *were* mounted in a spring mounted 
cabinet) civilian systems were the ONLY systems that stayed online 
during our worst problems...Because they ran on of the shelf UPS power 
supplies. The modern tech is power efficient enough to do that for 
relatively extended times. The standard military "ruggedized" stuff 
sucks so much power it has to be water cooled. Forget UPS with them - 
they would have be special built to last more than seconds.
