Path: msuinfo!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!news.cerf.net!mvb.saic.com!MathWorks.Com!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!cyber2.cyberstore.ca!nwnexus!coho!ken
From: ken@coho.halcyon.com (Ken Pizzini)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Comments on the Kearns and Valiant paper?
Date: 3 May 1994 18:48:31 GMT
Organization: A World of Information at Your Fingertips
Lines: 40
Message-ID: <2q669v$23m@nwfocus.wa.com>
References: <JET.94Apr29143123@boxer.nas.nasa.gov>
NNTP-Posting-Host: coho.halcyon.com

In article <JET.94Apr29143123@boxer.nas.nasa.gov>,
J. Eric Townsend <jet@boxer.nas.nasa.gov> wrote:
>... in the latest JACM(*)?  I'm still learning the background math, so
>I have problems following the paper at points and have certainly
>missed the impact (if any) of their work.
>
>Anyone comfortable with the math care to give us a short summary?
>Have they really found a way to exploit public key exchange, or am I
>missing something?

I haven't read the whole paper, as I am not familiar with
learning theory, nor am I particularly interested in learning
it at this time.  But I did read enough to get a feel for
what their result was:

Basically, they show that *if* certain learning algorithms can
be run in polynomial time then various problems (they give
RSA, Blum integer factorization, and detecting quadratic
residues as examples) become "easy".  A key sentence in
the abstract is:
	"The techniques used demonstrates an interesting duality
	between learning and cryptography."

The implication can be taken two ways -- if you assume that the
cherished "hard" problems that modern cryptography rely on are
indeed hard, then learning is hard.  If you instead assume that
learning is "easy", then the class of functions used by
cryptography (other than symetric key cryptography, which does
not have a clear theoretical base) are not secure (and I only
note discrete logarithm missing from their list).

In a sense this is similar to Cook's result on NP-complete
problems:  since all problems in NP can be solved in polynomial
time if any NP-complete problem can be solved in polynomial
time you can either make the long-term conclusion that all NP
problems are easy, you just need to find a poly-time solution
to a NP-complete problem; or you can conclude that NP-complete
problems are doomed to be intractable.

		--Ken Pizzini
