Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!news.moneng.mei.com!hookup!batcomputer!ghost.dsi.unimi.it!univ-lyon1.fr!jussieu.fr!zaphod.crihan.fr!warwick!qmw-dcs!qmw!demon!uknet!EU.net!uunet!not-for-mail
From: nrh@uunet.uu.net (Nat Howard)
Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.cpsr.talk,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt,talk.politics.theory,alt.politics.usa.constitution
Subject: Re: "Open Sesame"--MacNeil-Lehrer Report on Clipper
Date: 3 May 1994 20:43:26 -0400
Organization: UUNET Technologies Inc, Falls Church, VA, USA
Lines: 49
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <2q6r3e$3vi@daimajin.UU.NET>
References: <2o8b9u$5v7@news.acns.nwu.edu> <strnlghtCott99.72I@netcom.com> <2ph4hs$odi@hermes.unt.edu> <strnlghtCovv0D.2tq@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: daimajin.uu.net
Xref: msuinfo talk.politics.crypto:5085 comp.org.cpsr.talk:479 comp.org.eff.talk:33160 alt.privacy.clipper:4201 sci.crypt:26909 talk.politics.theory:31305 alt.politics.usa.constitution:7538

In article <strnlghtCovv0D.2tq@netcom.com>,
David Sternlight <david@sternlight.com> wrote:
>I'm not going to engage in a debate on this subject with those who are
>making it up as they go along, and have never read or studied any of the
>fundamental materials on this topic. Natural Law is the subject of extensive
>work over the past several thousands of years, and about which there is much
>teaching and source material in most good universities, from your choice of
>the theological, law, or philosophy faculties.

I believe this is a variant of the "argument from authority".  
The arguer asserts that his position is right because some recognized
authority -- in this case "extensive work over the past 
several thousands of years" etc., etc., agrees with him.

The classic response is, "but why do *they* think so?".  Here Sternlight
pirouettes in anticipation, saying, in effect, "I won't tell you, you
wouldn't understand because you haven't taken the time to study what I
think are the right books".

One might characterize such "arguments" as pompous and ineffective.  It
would be one thing if we had to convince Sternlight (or, more
concretely, get him to say he agrees) that he's wrong about Clipper,
and wrong about the Government.  We don't.  We need merely point out
that he's arguing from authority, and refusing to back his argument, in
this case, with the true source of authority: convincing logic, built
on solid facts.

Instead he attempts to treat those with whom he argues as infants --
recently, he characterized a posting of mine as conjuring the
bogey man, here he doesn't deign to argue with those who
don't know enough.   Why?

The learned people I've met (and argued with) don't generally take this
tack -- to be fair, they don't generally act like Sternlight has here,
and so don't generally feel they must defend themselves so vigorously,
and with recourse to such well-presented, but flawed, arguments.

David -- if you were trying to convince us that (say) a large asteroid
were going to hit the Earth, you'd have recourse to orbital mechanics,
and would be quite right to say that some crank who couldn't do
calculus should just shut up.  The nice thing about orbits is that they
can be observed, measured, and computed.  The computations are
independent of the arguments.  Philosophy is not so clearly a solved
problem where you have the right and others have the wrong.

If you wish to use Natural Law to buttress your case, fine.  You brought
it up, you explain how it does so.  Even in the orbital mechanics case,
if you said "calculus proves my point", you'd be expected to make
the calculations public -- even if most wouldn't understand it.
