Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.cpsr.talk,comp.org.eff.talk,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!mp.cs.niu.edu!tk0jut1
From: tk0jut1@mp.cs.niu.edu (jim thomas)
Subject: Re: CPSR and Sternlight's Fabrications 
Message-ID: <1994May4.044307.23177@mp.cs.niu.edu>
Organization: Northern Illinois University
References: <strnlghtCp6qx8.AGw@netcom.com> <Cp8DDK.1Av@glendora.uucp> <strnlghtCp92Gt.EF0@netcom.com>
Distribution: inet
Date: Wed, 4 May 1994 04:43:07 GMT
Lines: 116
Xref: msuinfo talk.politics.crypto:5088 comp.org.cpsr.talk:481 comp.org.eff.talk:33167 sci.crypt:26911

In article <strnlghtCp92Gt.EF0@netcom.com> david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight) writes:

>I know you mean well, but you REALLY should try to follow the discussion. It
>was not I who asked people to mail me, but an infrequently posting bystander
>who had no reason to be in anyone's kill file.

When mistruths are repeated often enough and loud enough, it is likely
that some folk might begin to believe them, and despite the previous
long threads demolishing David's "methodology," he insists on defending it
without alluding to the critiques. David simply cannot understand that
an oblique request by a poster in this forum to respond to Sternlight is
hardly representative of the full population in question. If anything,
the responses indicate strong support. Sternlight also continues to
ignore that fact--previously repeated ad nauseam, that the original post
DID NOT call for a response from those who signed the petition to
so-indicate to Sternlight. The poster called for lurkers to write 
Sternlight explaining why they lurked. The post was in response to
a Sternlight comment that there were not 10,000 people in THIS forum
supporting the petition, and the post solicited responses to explain
lurking.  It's also worth noting that Sternlight conceded a 100 pct
response rate in support of the petition. Hence, he has no reason from
the results of the experiment to conclude that any of the sigs were
"bogus." Sternlight demonstrates reprehensible disingenuousness in his
continued claims that have been demolished. He also seems unable to learn
from the methodological critiques of his method. An "F" for methods, and
"F" for intellectual integrity, and an "F" for retention span.
 
>In judging the responses
>singularly unpersuasive by their number, I was allowing for the broader
>posting of the CPSR appeal. Said broader posting, by the way, took place in
>stages. 

Numerous posts explained the distribution of the petition. David still
cannot get it through his head that the numbers in this forum are
miniscule compared to the over-all distribution. Cu Digest alone
reaches between 150,000 - 200,000 readers. By contrast, the post to
which DS alludes as precipitating his "experiment" was limited to this
forum, did not request the information he so-claims (which, if he's
been paying attention, he should know, because that post was reposted
numerous times to remind him of the wording), and to which people had
no incentive to respond.

>The original 10,000 have signed claim was before the broader posts
>by CPSR.

DS is, unsurprisingly, stunning wrong. The above comment typifies how
he makes claims that he knows, or should know, to be false to justify
an indefensible position. The facts:

On January 24, 1994, a number of leading computer and cryptology
experts signed a letter to President Clinton asking to withdraw Clipper.
The public response was favorable, and within a 3-day period, CPSR
invited people to sign on to that letter, which became the petition.
CuD published the petition on 6 Feb in issue #6.13. The petition had
previously appeared on the nets in digests, newsgroups, and other
places, and on public access systems, inter alia.
FACT: Sternlight's claim is false and if he'd been paying attention
he should know the sequence.

Within a day or so of 15 February, CPSR announced that it had received
over 10,000 responses (see CuD #6.16) within a bit more than a week.
FACT: Sternlight's claim is false. 

It is of course possible that some of us are part of a conspiracy to
forge dates and posts as part of some complex plot to add post facto
credibility to the petition. Afterall, Sternlight has so-suggested that
some here in this forum have the knowledge and motivation to do so.
Of course, such a conspiracy would involve millions of readers, which
alone should suggest the weight of opposition to Clipper. Slice it as
one might, Sternlight is again "hoist by his own petard" and continues
to display an apparent high threshold for public humiliation when is
falsehoods come home to roost. Sternlight will likely call this more
"slime" and "typical Thomas" as he does when the facts demolish his
falsehoods.

>It wasn't my "smear campaign" but a suggestion by another in response to my
>comment that it wasn't clear that the signatures were all genuine. He
>suggested, in an inflammatory atmosphere where feelings ran high, that
>Clipper opponents "show me". That's a pretty good temptation to do so.
>
It was DS's SMEAR campaign. He ignores the fact that he claimed that the
petition was a hoax among other things. He also ignores that the post
to which he alludes did not claim what he believes.  It's easily enough
dug out and reposted for those who missed his earlier defamation.

>By the way, I don't suggest their motive was to hoax CPSR in the ordinary
>sense. I suggest it was to create a false impression of the magnitude of the
>opposition to Clipper. Perhaps in that sense one could say they were hoaxing
>CPSR.

Amazing. Sternlight continiues to claim, as the above suggests, that a
hoax occured. Not only is he out of the loop, but he seems unaware of
the history of the petition.

>Finally, there was never an issue of whether there were _any_ bogus
>signatures or not. CPSR fans and Clipper opponents in the discussion
>(several) said that they would expect about 10 percent of the signatures to
>be bogus. The issue wasn't about whether, but how many. CPSR itself, via
>Sobel's post, acknowledges that there were a number of signatures THEY
>though bogus enough not to count.

Judging from the CPSR commentary, their measures to estimate the 
credibility quotient of the sigs went far beyond that of any other
non-legal petition of which I'm aware. As anybody who's run a mailing
list knows, bounces (for example) to not necessarily indicate bogus
addresses, but unreadable paths, accounts that disappear during the period,
or other technical glitches. It cannot be assumed that the deletions
were necessarily bogus.

Sorry for the long post, but Sternlight's continued defamation of CSPR
based on demonstrably wrong facts, an unwillingness to read attentively,
and flawed logic cannot be allowed to stand unchallenged.

jt


