Newsgroups: sci.math,sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.security.pgp,alt.security.ripem,comp.security.misc,alt.privacy
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!news.kei.com!news.oc.com!convex!convex!seas.smu.edu!uunet!cds8604!Cadence.COM!lou
From: lou@Cadence.COM (Louis K. Scheffer)
Subject: Re: RSA-129
Message-ID: <lou.768028166@cadence.com>
Sender: usenet@Cadence.COM (Usenet News)
Nntp-Posting-Host: caber.cadence.com
Organization: Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
References: <WARLORD.94Apr27000625@incommunicado.mit.edu> <strnlghtCoxF2o.DLA@netcom.com> <JET.94Apr28170538@boxer.nas.nasa.gov> <2q3huh$a99@sol.tis.com> <strnlghtCp73J9.G8B@netcom.com>
Distribution: ba
Date: Wed, 4 May 1994 05:09:26 GMT
Lines: 117
Xref: msuinfo sci.math:71292 sci.crypt:26974 alt.security:16402 alt.security.pgp:12563 alt.security.ripem:876 comp.security.misc:9767 alt.privacy:15040

In <strnlghtCp73J9.G8B@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:
>No. My point is to get qualified experts here to state specific and
>up-to-date security properties of RSA keys of length 512 and 1024, in terms
>of time to crack by organizations with the presumed power, money,
>computation power, and motivation of the NSA as a surrogate for its foreign
>opposite numbers. It is also to get some similar measure on how long the
>IPRA key should be.

>I want such information based on careful analysis, assuming the best known
>technologies of today and the near-future, not on hand waving or approximate
>aggregate assertions. This means considering machine type, power, intensity
>of use, etc. To date there's been a lot of wind and some very sloppy
>aggregated hand waving about the number of molecules in this and that in
>response to my message, but few useful responses. The last really useful
>work I've seen is Rivest's, but it is both dated and incomplete with respect
>to the output variable I think most relevant.

Quit whining, and do it yourself!  Various people here have pointed out all
the relevent technological facts:
    1) The best known factoring algorithms are the (sophisticated) sieves,
    2) The performance of such sieves is largely determined by memory speed,
    3) Since the world's semiconductor companies spend more on R&D than the
       NSA, the NSA's memories are probably no better than commercial ones,
    4) State of the art memory runs at 50-60ns and costs $30/MB
    5) About 8MB per processor is needed for 512 bit keys; 1024 bit keys
       would require 16 MB per processor
    6) The order of the current sieve algorithms is well known; the constants
       on the algorithms that would probably be most useful at 1024 bits are
       not known (but this only introduces about a factor of 10 uncertainty.)
From this, you could build a really simple spreadsheet in less time than it
takes you to complain.  You could then plug in any assumptions you want,
such as how many $ NSA is willing to spend, how much better their classified
algorithms might be, how much technology will improve in the next few years,
and so on, and work out a detailed estimate for that case.
   The reason that people don't do this, of course, is that it is not worth
while.  The arguments you dismiss as handwaving are in fact quite rigorous.
They are:
   1) 5000 MIPS-years was spent on RSA-129. (Solid information)
   2) If you bought workstations, that much computing power would cost you
      about $150,000.  Buy 50 $3000 work stations, 33 MIPS each, and let them
      work for 3 years.  Of course you can get more machines in parallel, but
      that does not affect the cost per solution, though it lowers the time
      proportionally.
	 This might well be off by a factor of 2 in cost.  It's probably not 
      off by a factor of 10, though, since more than 1/10 of the cost is in
      memories, and workstation manufacturers already use the world's best
      memories.  (and the NSA is not going to do better here, see above)
   3) Using existing algorithms, 1024 bits is about 20,000 times harder.
      This is pretty solid.  Other algorithms, not yet used in production,
      might be better at the 1024 bit level.  It's not yet clear how much
      better they are, since they have not been well characterized, but it's
      not overwhelming.  I think Bob Silverman's estimate was that the time
      estimate for 1024 bits might be off by a factor of 10.
So taking the full factor of 10 for both improvements, running the best known
algorithms on special purpose boxes tuned just for this, we might get a factor
of 100 in $/solution.  So each solution costs at least $150,000 x 200, or
$30,000,000.  How long does each solution take?  Say the NSA will spend
$300,000,000 on a machine.  Each processor costs $300, so they can apply
at most 1,000,000 processors.  Each has the same 33 MIP throughput as a 
conventional workstation (remember, they are memory limited.)  A 1024 bit
solution needs 5000 x 2000 MIPS-years (assuming a factor of 10 for 
algorithms).  This gives you 3.3 solutions per year.

Note that there are only a few assumptions here, and they all seem sound.
Amy hardware - be it connection machine, special purpose, or a network of
workstations, has got to use memory to run the existing algorithms.  Memory
is well understood, both in performance and cost.  It also has a quite
extensive track record in terms of speed and density improvements, and the
physics and circuitry are quite well understood.  Hence we can predict that
for the forseeable future (say 10 years) that memories will grow cheaper and
faster at a fairly predictable rate (say a factor of 4 in size/$, and 2 in
speed, every 3 years).  You can factor this into the analysis above, to
say we'll have at most a 64 fold improvement in these costs over the next
6 years.

>I'm particularly disappointed at the response from the MITRE employee. While
>on staff at the RAND Corporation, II worked on some of the first command and
>control systems with MITRE in the late 1950's, along with some of my fellow
>MIT alumni. The level of intelligence, sophistication, and engineering
>analytic ability there was remarkably high, and to get the kind of
>contemptuous junk answers back that we have in this discussion is a sad
>commentary on either the particular respondent, or the quality of MITRE's
>work in this area in general.

Well, I'm rather disappointed at your response.  However, I blame you
directly, and not MIT for letting you graduate.  I know it can't be MIT's
fault, since I have known many intelligent, sophisticated MIT grads that
had great engineering analytic ability.  So I can't take you as typical of
the quality of MIT alumni.

Seriously, this discussion involves a lot of people who seem to know what
they are doing:
   1) The people who have performed that largest publicly known RSA factoring.
   2) An outside factoring expert (with the publications to prove it) who 
      was not associated with that particular project.
   3) A number of representatives of state of the art parallel machine
      companies.
   4) People who are experts in the fields of special purpose machine
      design, and the semiconductor industry.
The consensus of these experts is that it would take even the NSA, or some
similarly funded organization, a lot of money (tens of millions per
solution) and a lot of time (months, even with the largest practical
parallelism) to factor 1024 bit keys in the near future, using the best
currently known methods.  More accuracy than this is probably unobtainable,
since we are talking about a secretive organization, and we are talking about
the future.

>Arrogance is no substitute for analysis.

That's absolutely right.  But in this case the arrogant experts have done
enough analysis in their own specialties to allow other experts to do their
own analysis of the overall situation.  Now it's your job to follow up.
In any case, competent arrogance is *much* better than ungrateful whining 
that you didn't get exactly what you wanted, when the experts have
spent their time telling you the facts you need to do your own analysis.

   Lou Scheffer
