Path: msuinfo!agate!overload.lbl.gov!s1.gov!fastrac.llnl.gov!usenet.ee.pdx.edu!cs.uoregon.edu!reuter.cse.ogi.edu!psgrain!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!nic-nac.CSU.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!ames!hookup!news2.sprintlink.net!news.sprintlink.net!sundog.tiac.net!max.tiac.net!huricane
From: huricane@max.tiac.net (Pierce Nichols)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Help!!!Pseudo ramdom cyphering
Date: 6 May 1994 00:50:23 GMT
Organization: The Internet Access Company
Lines: 34
Message-ID: <2qc48f$slo@sundog.tiac.net>
References: <1994May2.170848.29416@uab.es>
NNTP-Posting-Host: max.tiac.net
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

Vicente (gandalf@lafran.uab.es) wrote:
: I want to know how high is the security of a pseudoramdom cypher scheme
: using two pseudoramdom numbers one its taken directly and the other it's
: passed throught a caotical ecuation or fractal to determine another another
: pseudoramdom value ?.

: Thanx

: Vicente A.S. Werner (vinsan@freenet.fsu.edu)

	I thought of a DES-based system using a similar stunt - I'll try 
to explain it, but I'm afraid it won't be very clear:
	1. Produce a 64 bit pseudo-random number (block size of DES)
	2. Get said number to your reciever
	3. Take that number, and encrypt the first 64 bits of the message 
with that number, as a one time pad. 
	4. Take the ciphertext, and encrypt it, using DES, and the original 
number as a key.
	5. Take the DES ciphertext from the above, and use it as a one-time pad 
for the next 64-bit block.
	6. repeat steps 4 & 5 until the end of the message, using as the 
DES key the ciphertext from the block before.

	Decryption would be a reversal of the above steps. I have no real 
experience with cryptanalysis, so the above could be brilliant, but is 
more likely pointless, or harmful. The reason I think it might work is 
that the DES ciphertext from each block produces a highly random number, 
and a great number of individual one-time pads. Any error propagates rapidly.
	Oh, I just realized this - the length of a DES key is not 64 
bits. You could just fill it out with random binary digits, probably 
withour reducing security. Again - I really don't know that much about 
it, so I can't really tell.
	Hurricane	
	
