Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!usc!nic-nac.CSU.net!news.Cerritos.edu!news.Arizona.EDU!math.arizona.edu!math.arizona.edu!not-for-mail
From: uurtamo@math.arizona.edu (Steve Uurtamo)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: PGP and RSA implementation
Date: 6 May 1994 09:27:34 -0700
Organization: Mathematics Department, University of Arizona
Lines: 41
Message-ID: <2qdr5m$6ft@acoma.math.arizona.edu>
References: <44050@mindlink.bc.ca> <2qba41$fq6@ame2.math.arizona.edu> <CpCpCo.ML1.3@cs.cmu.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: acoma.math.arizona.edu

In article <CpCpCo.ML1.3@cs.cmu.edu>,
Rujith S DeSilva <rudis+@cs.cmu.edu> wrote:
>Perhaps there a trivial factoring algorithm that will be uncovered in a few
>years.  Perhaps differential cryptanalysis will crack IDEA in a few years.
>No current encryption algorithm is based on a firm lower-bound of
>difficulty, so all the confidence we have in them is due to many extremely
>clever people having failed to crack them.  Given this, I don't see how you
>can judge RSA to be stronger, in some sense, than IDEA.  Granted, you don't
>know the operation of IDEA, but do you have any intuition as to why
>factoring is so difficult, in spite of primality-testing being so easy?

For probably the same reason that you think that IDEA is strong.  Many people
over hundreds and hundreds of years have tried to make factoring easier.  It's
not.  It requires computers on the order of which never existed previously.

As to your second point, I think that you'll find that primality-PROVING is
much more difficult than primality testing.  Composite testing is also fairly
easy (much easier than primality-PROVING).  Neither primality testing or
composite testing are factoring.  Why do you (ignorantly) assume that if the
problem has the word "primes" in it, that the two problems are even remotely
similar?  Sure, one way to prove a number prime is to factor p-1, but for the
size of the numbers that we're talking about (and because in an RSA modulus
they need to resist several well-known factoring methods) this isn't 
significantly easier.  Most people who talk about primality testing (in this
newsgroup) aren't actually proving the primality of anything.  They're 
typically establishing that most composite numbers wouldn't survive the assault
that they're giving them.

Also, I refer you to an earlier point:  Mathematicians have been involved with
integers much, much longer than ANYONE has been involved with block ciphers.
Much more is known, yet, the problem is still hard.  It's not (probably) 
something that is going to be "solved".  It's something that better and better
algorithms will come out for, but probably only for numbers of specific types.
The fact that many different attacks are used for different types of numbers
should lead you to believe that the state of the art, while incredibly amazing,
is a highly refined process that has taken hundreds of years to reach the state
that it's at, and that "breakthroughs" aren't going to hurt RSA.

Yes, I said it.  Breakthroughs aren't going to hurt RSA.

-steve
