Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: Someone Get The Classified Docs and Post Them Please!
Message-ID: <strnlghtCpGDts.AKJ@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <180303Z07051994@anon.penet.fi>
Date: Sat, 7 May 1994 22:15:28 GMT
Lines: 36

In article <180303Z07051994@anon.penet.fi>,  <an78596@anon.penet.fi> wrote:
>Federal documents of interest:

Looks like another juvenile who came across some titles of classified
documents, and posts anonymously to hide.

Unfortunately for him, he may not have realized that some of the titles
were, themselves classified, as indicated.

Thus he's committed a violation of the espionage laws of the U.S. if
he's American, and one might not be surprised to see interesting news items
in the near future, after the appropriate officials have penetrated either
his traffic routing, the anonymous remailer, or both.

Since he sent his traffic to Finland, unless the link from him to .fi was
encrypted, it's going to be a piece of cake for the NSA to pick out his
traffic, if they care, and if the methods the public press suggest they use
are at all on the mark.

By the way, contrary to popular belief I think it _is_ legal for the NSA or
the FBI to monitor his traffic if a violation of law is suspected and they
can get enough probable cause to convince the appropriate court.

Just for fun, I suggest a contest for those net communications gurus to see
if they can smoke out his address and beat law enforcement to the punch.

As a prize, I offer a free copy of the almost inch-thick  printed notes from
this year's NetWorld+InterOP94 tutorial:

"Internet Naming and Directory Services", by Dr. Paul Mockapetris, USC/ISI

to the first net person who posts the individual's true name and e-mail
address, and enough information to allow one to confirm that claim
independently. The poster himself is ineligible.

David
