Newsgroups: sci.math,sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.security.pgp,comp.security.misc,alt.privacy
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!swrinde!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: RSA-129
Message-ID: <strnlghtCpG8Cw.JBp@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <WARLORD.94Apr27000625@incommunicado.mit.edu> <2q49c9$nhn@dartvax.dart <strnlghtCp7q6s.C2r@netcom.com> <pete.09g9@bignode.equinox.gen.nz>
Date: Sat, 7 May 1994 20:17:20 GMT
Lines: 54
Xref: msuinfo sci.math:71495 sci.crypt:27143 alt.security:16495 alt.security.pgp:12732 comp.security.misc:9848 alt.privacy:15159

In article <pete.09g9@bignode.equinox.gen.nz>,
Pete Moore <pete@bignode.equinox.gen.nz> wrote:

[personal attacks omitted]

>
>I doubt that you're keeping score, but here is a contrary opinion:  the
>responses that you have received have told you what was wrong with your
>question, how it could be fixed, and how to find the answer.  They have
>also been much more polite than you deserve.

I've been warned by e-mail that this group is polarized, that some are
arrogant and abrasive, that there are groups of sycophants of some who,
though technically bright might do with some improvement of their
interpersonal skills, etc. I've been told that polarizing conversations, of
just this sort have happened before.

I've seen posts and received mail from some who support my posture--I want
an answer, not lessons. If I want lessons, fishing or otherwise, I'll ask
for them. I've also seen posts to the contrary such as yours.

I think your position to be incredibly arrogant--that is, if someone who is
not one of your students asks for particular information, that you have the
right to treat his as if he were a student without his permission, and given
him "fishing lessons" instead of the requested fish.

In fact, it's just the kind of position that leads to the reputation for
"American Imperialism" around the world.

The right way to do it is to say:

1. Here's your answer;
or 
2. I haven't the time to give you your answer, but WOULD YOU LIKE me to show
you how to find it? (If a positive response, then give fishing lessons).
Farmers aren't required to have fishing lessons if they want to eat the
occasional fish;
or
3. Remain silent, since the request was general and perhaps someone else
will give answer 1 or 2.

Frankly I'm now not only fed up, but also disgusted at the bright people,
who were given natural gifts through no effort of their own, who were mostly
educated because someone else paid for it, and who, having both brains and
education, run around treating the rest of humanity as "clueless", with
arrogance, with superciliousness, with paternalism, and with egomania. I
speak as one with the same IQ range, and with education from some of the
same finest schools, paid for in part by others. Grow up!

As Jessye Norman found out recently, it is NOT o.k. to be a prima donna just
because you can sing.

David

