Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!spool.mu.edu!torn!nott!cunews!freenet.carleton.ca!FreeNet.Carleton.CA!ab606
From: ab606@FreeNet.Carleton.CA (Ted Reinhardt)
Subject: REQUEST FOR INPUT ON ONE TIME PAD SPECIFICATION
Message-ID: <CpGJr7.Kw@freenet.carleton.ca>
Sender: news@freenet.carleton.ca
Reply-To: ab606@FreeNet.Carleton.CA (Ted Reinhardt)
Organization: The National Capital FreeNet
Date: Sun, 8 May 1994 00:23:31 GMT
Lines: 50



ONE TIME MESSAGE PAD SOFTWARE
REQUEST FOR INPUT: REQUIREMENTS DEFINITION
------------------------------------------
 
I am in the process of writing a one time message pad implementation.
Currently, I am writing a requirements specification and have received
comments from friends on what should be included.
 
If you have any features that you would like to have incorporated
please drop a note.
 
Some of the capabilities I hope to incorporate will be:
 
	a.  A selection of random number generators;
	b.  User defined random number generators;
	c.  Key streams that can be either the size of a file,
	    a specific size, or the size of the storage medium.
	d.  Destruction of the key as it is used;
	e.  The ability to re-use the key if desired;
	f.  The ability to re-use the key masked with another key;
  	g.  The ability to look at the clear message, the cipher and
	    the key stream to demonstrate how it works;
	h.  a dictionary to 5 digit code generator;
	i.  a clear text to 5 digit code translator (both ways);
	j.  support for 8086/8088 vintage PCs;
	k.  support for windows;
	l.  suggested procedures; 
	m.  UUENCODING of the results; 
	n.  Pull down menus;
	o.  Multi-lingual support;
	p.  Simple alphabet to 2 digit codes for kids games, etc.
 
This is not an exhaustive list.
 
I would appreciate comments from the sci.crypt folk on other features that
would be nice to have.  If any one is interested in seeing the finished
product please let me know.	
 
Suggestions are requested before 1 June 94.
 
Thanks.
 
Ted Reinhardt
ab606@freenet.carleton.ca

-- 
Ted Reinhardt

