Newsgroups: sci.math,sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.security.pgp,alt.security.ripem,comp.security.misc,alt.privacy
Path: msuinfo!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!uknet!EU.net!uunet!cds8604!lou
From: lou@Cadence.COM (Louis K. Scheffer)
Subject: Re: RSA-129
Message-ID: <lou.768370394@cadence.com>
Sender: news@Cadence.COM
Nntp-Posting-Host: caber.cadence.com
Organization: Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
References: <WARLORD.94Apr27000625@incommunicado.mit.edu> <2q3huh$a99@sol.tis.com> <strnlghtCp73J9.G8B@netcom.com> <lou.768028166@cadence.com> <strnlghtCpBLsn.A67@netcom.com>
Date: Sun, 8 May 1994 04:13:14 GMT
Lines: 104
Xref: msuinfo sci.math:71525 sci.crypt:27174 alt.security:16510 alt.security.pgp:12758 alt.security.ripem:910 comp.security.misc:9865 alt.privacy:15184

In <strnlghtCpBLsn.A67@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:

>Lou Scheffer posts a messsage in which, after taking me to task for asking
>the question the way I did, answers it in my terms.

>Unfortunately, with his assumptions it takes just under 4 months to break a
>1024 bit key, and another expert message recently posted has such keys
>lasting for 20 to 40 years.

>Is it any wonder I find the kind of impressionistic "off the top of one's
>head" analysis I'm seeing here a trial, and suggest a careful and detailed
>analysis is needed. I have to say as one looking for a practical answer that
>seems reliable, that so far the various experts here have not distinguished
>themselves.

Actually, a factor of 100 is reasonably close (guessing the NSAs capabilities
is somewhat like astronomy in this respect).  There is this much uncertainty
in the NSA's budget for this project alone, and this directly translates
into time to solution.  If you calculate $/solution, the answers are much
closer (within a factor of 10, more or less).

In this particular example, the uncertainty comes from
   1) The NSA's budget for this problem.  I assumed $300,000,000.  Other
      assumptions I have seen range from $25,000,000 to $25,000,000,000 (!).
      Since this is a parallel processing task, dollars trade of directly
      for time.  So if I assume your budget ($50,000,000) the time to
      solution becomes 2 years.
   2) Existance of special purpose hardware, and its properties. Possible
      assumptions are:
	 a) Use the cheapest commercially available processors for the task.
	 b) Build a special purpose processor, but use commercial memory.
	    You get at most a factor of 10 here, since 1/10 of the workstation
	    cost is memory.
	 c) Build special purpose memory as well.  This is tricky to figure
	    out.  Special memory, like VRAMS, can be quite a bit faster for
	    very specific memory access patterns.  However, they are more
	    expensive, and a larger quantity of conventional memory may work
	    better.  Furthermore, advances in algorithms may make your
	    investment in weird memories obsolete, by requiring a different
	    access pattern.  This is a very risky strategy - if you really
	    have the right algorithm, you might get a factor of 10 (100 times
	    faster, but 10 times the cost).  On the other hand, if the 'best'
	    algorithm changes, you may end up with a very expensive factor
	    of 1 or less.
	 d) Circuit technology.  Do you believe NSA has access to some wild
	    new hardware techology?  I think this is unlikely for several
	    reasons, but others may believe differently.  In any case, it's
	    probably no more than a factor of 10 - even if it is 100 times
	    faster, it's probably at least 10 times as expensive.
      So depending on your assumptions here, you get a possible difference of
      100-1000 in solution time.
   3) Advances in factoring.  I took the factoring people's estimate
      (1024 bits is 20,000 times harder than RSA-129) and assumed the
      NSA has a 10 times better implementation.  Of course, this is really
      a wild guess.  Possible assumptions:
	  a) Use existing algorithms.  Even this has significant uncertainty,
	     since the constants that determine the running time are not
	     well characterized for 1024 bit numbers.
          b) Take the best known algorithms and tune the hell out of them,
	     but no fundimental breakthrough.  This may get you a factor of 10.
          c) There is a new algorithm.  In this case no one even knows the
             order.  Rivest tries to analyze this by assuming some plausible
             changes in the exponent, but that is just a slightly more
             sophisticated wild guess.  I know of at least one expert in
	     mathematical cryptography who thinks that factoring may fall 
	     (i.e. there may exist a solution whose time is polynomial in the 
	     number of digits).  Such a breakthrough would render all keys,
	     of any size, unsafe.  This is clearly a minority opinion at
	     this point, but no one can rule it out unless someone can prove
	     that factoring is intrinsically difficult.  Such negative proofs
	     are notoriously difficult.
	  d) Factoring algorithms will continue to improve at the 'same
	     rate'.  Take the historical data of what size numbers could
	     be factored when, remove machine power improvements, and
	     then extrapolate the curve.  Empiricism at its best.
      The possibility of a new algorithm is what makes it impossible to
      say what key size will be safe for how long.  The possible variation
      here is so huge that it makes a detailed analysis of the other factors
      moot.
   4) The rate of technology improvement over the next N years.  Improvements
      to electronics are fairly clear, but some new technology (such as
      self replicating machines) could drastically change the picture.
      Especially if you try to extrapolate out 25-50 years, this is another
      huge uncertainty.
If you multiply all these uncertainties together, you see why the answers
vary so much.  As I said before, if you normalize to $/solution, then
the budget factor can be eliminated.  The others are intrinsic to the
problem.
   An interesting side effect is that our opponents probably have much
better assessments of the NSA's capabilities than normal American citizens
(or given the 'need to know' rules, perhaps ANY American citizens).  For
example, if the NSA has a project in this area, they probably know about
it, and if they don't know of one they can probably put a good upper bound
on its size.  Likewise, they probably have more insight into the state of
the factoring art at NSA than we do.  Furthermore, if the NSA has any wild
new technologies, they probably know of them (at the very least), and if
not they can state so with more confidence than we can.

Sorry for the long winded message - however I strongly believe that a quest
for certainty in this area is doomed to failure.

   -Lou Scheffer


