Path: msuinfo!agate!headwall.Stanford.EDU!kocherp
From: kocherp@leland.Stanford.EDU (Paul Carl Kocher)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Decrypting DNA
Date: 8 May 1994 21:07:24 GMT
Organization: Stanford University, CA 94305, USA
Lines: 53
Message-ID: <2qjkac$o7o@nntp2.Stanford.EDU>
References: <1994May8.111127.676@walter.cray.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: cardinal.stanford.edu

Mark Dalton <mwd@walter.cray.com> wrote:
>I was wondering if any of the 'cypher' people have worked on 'decrypting'
>DNA on a larger scale.  There a number of projects that will take a DNA
>sequence and predict the coding regions.  But there is a LOT more to
>genetics than just coding for proteins.  (It is part of a complex/dynamic
>system and regulation is very important, the 'junk' DNA is VITAL for
>proper expression of the genes).
>
>Just curious question, with interest in helping anyone interested
>with the genetics side of the problem.

I've been interested in both crypto and genetics for quite a 
while -- I'm studying biology here at Stanford but work in
crypto as a consultant for Microsoft and RSA Data Security.
Although I'm not an expert on DNA sequencing technology,
There are a few biology-related data processing problems that
are somewhat crypto-like.  In particular, figuring out how 
short sequences of sequenced DNA overlap is a surprisingly 
difficult problem, plus a large amount of effort is being
spent developing software to identify homologies between 
known sequences.  [I understand that computer performance
is a major limitation, so if you know of any extra Crays
laying around, I'm sure I could find someone in the
Stanford genetics department who could use one... :-) ]

Still (unfortunately) the similarities between genetics and 
cryptographiy are largely superficial as DNA sequences 
are not intended to be confusing or hard to "crack," while 
crypto generally uses simple, fixed mathematical rules with 
few exceptions.  Work on promoters and splicing is progessing 
rapidly, but, to my knowledge, the challenges aren't particularly 
mathematical -- more work is needed to identify and 
understand the action and specificity of DNA-binding proteins.
[In doing security reviews, though, I've found enough horrid 
code and algorithms that I'm starting to wonder whether most 
programmers work by typing random letters and "evolving" their
bugs out... :-) ]

The problem you mention of identifying coding regions actually 
isn't too difficult -- people just look for open reading frames
(stretches of DNA that contain valid amino acid sequences without 
stop codons).  Random mutations add stop codons fairly frequently, 
so with the possible exception of very recent additions to the genome
or viral insertions, it should be clear which sequences are random
junk.  And, yes, at least in "higher" organisms, the vast majority 
of DNA does appear to be junk -- although some (relatively short)
non-coding regions are of critical importance, the idea that 
"the 'junk' DNA is VITAL for proper expression of the genes" 
has pretty much been abandoned.

Cheers,
Paul
kocherp@leland.stanford.edu
