Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!tcmay
From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)
Subject: Re: Someone Get The Classified Docs and Post Them Please!
Message-ID: <tcmayCpI7zH.7B2@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
References: <strnlghtCpGDts.AKJ@netcom.com> <6By1Lc1w165w@vox.hacktic.nl>
Date: Sun, 8 May 1994 22:04:29 GMT
Lines: 75

(This may not belong in sci.crypt, ideally, but it's where I found
this thread.  And I do make comments about remailers, untraceability,
and the implications for espionage, which I think are somewhat related
to sci.crypt, in the sense that traffic analysis is a crypto-related
topic.)

Usura (usura@vox.hacktic.nl) wrote:

: : Since he sent his traffic to Finland, unless the link from him to .fi was
: : encrypted, it's going to be a piece of cake for the NSA to pick out his
: : traffic, if they care, and if the methods the public press suggest they use
: : are at all on the mark.

: David have you ever heard of chaining remailers ? 

: If an78569 has chained his posting trough lets say two cypherpunks
: remailers wich accept PGP then it will be _very_ difficult to trace
: back this poster.  If he used one remailer in the US [outside NSA
: jurisdiction] and one or more outside the US before using 
: anon.penet.fi how could they trace him back ?

Well, David Sternlight explicitly said "unless the link from him to
.fi was encrypted," which effectively is the case you describe in
using chaining remailers.

(The last hop, from a remailer to the anon.penet.fi site need not be
enrypted, providing some of the earlier hops were, as this will
anonymize the sender information. Collusion by most or all of the
remailer sites can produce the sender identity, but this is in
practice difficult to arrange (one would think, as such collusion has
never been tried, that I know of).)

However, most users of the anon.penet.fi site do not use any kind of
encryption or remailers to obscure their identity. And of course the
operator of the anon.penet.fi site, Julf Helsingius, can in principle
learn any identies. (He has shown great restraint and integrity, but
it is a fact of life with "trust-based" systems like his that
identities can be determined. A paranoid person might imagine a world
in which law enforcement authorities established such "anonymous
services" to identify and locate miscreants of various flavors.)

Thus, I have to agree with David Sternlight that the NSA, with the
charter to monitor international traffic for things of significance
for national security concerns, will find it child's play--and fully
"legal"--to sniff the transatlantic packets going into anon.penet.fi
and determine who is whom, and so forth. (What actions they take, if
any, or the underlying issue of the documents themselves, I'm in no
position to comment on.)

Conclusion: Use one or more remailers before leaving the U.S. Better,
use several. Still better, use encryption.

(One thing Julf's system is very good for is for *return replies*.
This is something the first-generation Cypherpunks remailers make no
attempt to handle (an interesting technical problem, discussed by
Chaum in his 1981 paper on untraceable e-mail, is that of proving
return addresses or "self-addressed stamped envelopes" that maintain
sender anonymity). Return replies can be handled easily enough by
asking one's respondent to post (through a remailer) into a
publically-visible "message pool" area. Had Aldrich Ames had the good
sense to post through remailers into message pools with
"world-readable" status..... Well, spying will never be the same.)

(The preceeding is not a solicitation for folks to spy, nor a moral
endorsement of any kind of espionage or extortion. Just a consequence
of strong crypto....presumably an important topic for
talk.politics.crypto and even for sci.crypt to discuss.)

--Tim May

-- 
..........................................................................
Timothy C. May         | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,  
tcmay@netcom.com       | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
408-688-5409           | knowledge, reputations, information markets, 
W.A.S.T.E.: Aptos, CA  | black markets, collapse of governments.
Higher Power: 2^859433 | Public Key: PGP and MailSafe available.
"National borders are just speed bumps on the information superhighway."
