Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!uknet!EU.net!uunet!nwnexus!ole!rwing!pat
From: pat@rwing.UUCP (Pat Myrto)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Exporting Public Doma
Message-ID: <3543@rwing.UUCP>
Date: 10 May 94 14:59:15 GMT
References: <9404281017491317@springsboard.org> <2q3nbs$lsr@slinky.cs.nyu.edu>
Followup-To: talk.politics.crypto,talk.politics.guns,comp.org.eff.talk
Organization: Totally Unorganized
Lines: 91

Followups redirected to more appropriate groups.  But this demanded
a response where posted initially.

In article <2q3nbs$lsr@slinky.cs.nyu.edu> m-am4850@sparky.cs.nyu.edu.cs.nyu.edu (Alex Mourtos) writes:
>ALEX LANE (alex.lane@springsboard.org) wrote:
>: Pat Myrto writes:
>: 
>: PM>Clinton has referred to the Constitution as 'somewhat radical', the Bill
>: PM>of RIghts as 'radical', and that in general, people have 'too many
>: PM>freedoms'.
>: 
>: Have you a citation for this?
>:
>I think he said this when he was on Mtv recently.

More specifically:  Date was 04/19/94 on the MTV "Enough is Enough"
forum (an anti-RKBA hatchet job in true Politically Correct fashion).
Directed to an audience that either is ignorant of the Constitution, or
figures it is OK to circumvent it for the current manufactured crisis
of the week (it is not fashionable to teach the Constitution in schools
these days, at least without some 'official corrections').  How many
remember including the Federalist and Anti-Federalist papers in the
history classes taught these days?  Especially in the 'progressive'
public schools?  Better to teach 'sensitivity', and other subjects
based on 'modern thinking' instead...

And do you always post quoted material from *e-mail* with nothing to add
of your own, without even ASKING first?

No, its not this particular item being posted that offends, its the
principle that one thinks its OK to post e-mail correspondence from
others without permission.  This was a question asked via EMAIL over
a week ago.

I take it that it would also be OK to send people's private snail-mail
correspondence to a newspaper, too... or is that 'different'?   Yeh, I
know RKBA is off-topic, but I could not let this slide by, and in a
sense, it is NOT off-topic when you get right down to it:

One either supports the Bill of Rights, *ALL* of it (not by just picking
and choosing the PC portions of it), or run the sizeable risk losing
ALL of it.  What is to keep the price of ignoring the remaining amendments
unacceptably high (both in lives and dollars), if the TEETH are removed
from the people (it DOES say people in the BoR, after all, a LOT) by
gutting the Second Amendment (whether its in one fell swoop, or a nibble
at a time via 'creative interpretation')?  Knowing that an enraged
population could be extremely costly, vs an enraged population that can
do nothing but call names and wave signs has a definite effect on the
abuses governments dare to try.  That is what it is FOR.  It says nothing
about Clinton or Schummer approved 'sporting purposes'.  It DOES say
something about a 'free state', and is further clarified in the Federalist
Papers for those who have difficulty understanding 'shall not be infringed'.

History is full of examples of what happens when only the nobelmen or
elite or the STATE are allowed to posssess modern arms of the day.  Its
because when push comes to shove, if one cannot back one's words up with
a credible promise of force, such as when the other side has a monopoly
on force and flat refuses to listen, one's words suddenly become very
empty.  As an analogy on the individual level, try, for example, to
defend yourself against a mugger with 'meaningful dialogue', or
'negotiation'.  The only 'negotiation' such people understand is the
CREDIBLE PROMISE of having a sudden turn for the worst health-wise if
they do not cease and desist.  A 'maybe' a half hour (or more) later
IFF one can get to a phone to call 911 simply doesn't cut it:  he is
long gone, and the authorities can only take a report or clean up the
mess.  And since when has trampling on a persons basic rights become
negotiable anyway (unless this is the cornerstone of the 'New Order')?

Cantwell apparantly sorta upholds the right to privacy (in her anti
ITAR bill), but she does NOT support the right to the last resort
means of enforcing it, by her supporting a government monopoly on
all modern weapon designs, as she supports victim disarmament bills
such as those by Schummer, Feinstein, Clinton, DeConcini.  We all
know of the high degree of restraint and low incidence of abuse at
the hands of the government (review cases like Ruby Creek Idaho,
Waco Texas, the Lawmaster case, and others where one had 'incorrect'
points of view or the 'wrong' religeous beliefs).

People best start waking up and realize that history is indeed repeating
itself.  The only difference is the bogeyman of the day, and perhaps
the RATE at which freedoms are being removed 'for your own good'.

The Constitution:  Defend *ALL* of it, or lose it.  It is THAT SIMPLE.

Followups.

-- 
pat@rwing  [If all fails, try:  rwing!pat@ole.cdac.com]  Pat Myrto - Seattle WA
"No one has the right to destroy another person's belief by demanding
empirical evidence."  --   Ann Landers, nationally syndicated advice columnist
and Director at Handgun Control Inc.
