Path: msuinfo!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!news.cerf.net!mvb.saic.com!MathWorks.Com!panix!zip.eecs.umich.edu!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!gumby!yale!yale.edu!newsserver.jvnc.net!igor.rutgers.edu!thorium.rutgers.edu!leichter
From: leichter@thorium.rutgers.edu
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: RSA-129 [NSA technology]
Message-ID: <1994May10.131645.1@thorium.rutgers.edu>
Date: 10 May 94 18:16:45 GMT
Sender: news@igor.rutgers.edu
Lines: 53
Nntp-Posting-Host: thorium.rutgers.edu

A minor point concerning Lou Scheffer's comment on:

	 d) Circuit technology.  Do you believe NSA has access to some wild
	    new hardware techology?  I think this is unlikely for several
	    reasons, but others may believe differently....

I agree that it's unlikely that NSA is significantly ahead of the open
market in hardware technology - it's just too expensive, even with NSA-level
resources, even to stay current.  However, NSA would potentially one signifi-
cant advantage over "off-the-shelf" products:  They could accept process
yields way below industry standards.  Ultimately, it's process yields that
play the biggest role in determining whether it's economically feasible to
make and sell a chip.  This in turn determines how aggressive the technology
on a commercial production line can be.

The labs associated with anyone making chips are running at least a generation
or two ahead of what's "on the floor" today.  They can build individual chips,
or even small lots, using tomorrow's and the day after tomorrow's (and perhaps
even the day after that's) technology.  The stuff "a half day out" is often
available in small sample lots:  Fine for doing experiments, but no something
that you'd find inside of any commercial product.

The thing that makes it future technology is just the inability to apply it
today, reliably, on a large enough scale, and at a great enough speed.  (For
example, direct E-beam writing techniques have, I believe, been demonstrated,
but no one can yet make chips with them fast enough to make it worth their
while.)

If I had NSA-level funding and wanted to build a super-fast machine, I'd get
hold of the farthest-out technology I could - and NSA certainly has ways of
getting that, at least from American suppliers - and be willing to throw away
1000 chips or even 10000 chips for every one that actually worked.  After all,
code-breaking machines are hardly mass-production items.  Suppose, for the
sake of bizarre argument, I built a Pentium using the technology of 2 years
from now.  It would be, what, a 500 MIP chip?  Intel can *sell* todays
Pentiums for about $300 and presumably make a profit.  Let's suppose their
process yield today is 1% - a number I'm sure is way low.  If you're willing
to say only on chip in 10000 is acceptable, then you can have your 500 MIP
chip for $30000.  Hardly a huge sum of money.

The technology that would be involved here is not secret (though the details
are, to varying degrees - what's valuable to commercial enterprises is the
production level of the technology; the basic ideas and techniques are very
widely known); one can look at conference proceedings and technical reports
to get a feel for the technology that we'll all be using 2 or 5 years out, at
least in broad sketch.  (Much beyond that, it gets hazy.)

Keep in mind that, if NSA is doing this, their advantage is not that they are
2 or 3 or 5 years beyond *today*; it's that they are *always* 2 or 3 or 5
years ahead of what anyone else can afford to produce - and most of the hard
work is available to them almost for free in commercial labs.

							-- Jerry
