Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!lyra.csx.cam.ac.uk!mrr
From: mrr@cl.cam.ac.uk (Michael Roe)
Newsgroups: comp.protocols.iso,comp.protocols.iso.x400,sci.crypt
Subject: Re: LOCATOR-Projekt ?
Date: 11 May 1994 14:05:54 GMT
Organization: U of Cambridge Computer Lab, UK
Lines: 70
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2qqoo2$kuj@lyra.csx.cam.ac.uk>
References: <2qo7sh$30a@news.cs.tu-berlin.de>
NNTP-Posting-Host: smew.cl.cam.ac.uk
Xref: msuinfo comp.protocols.iso:5635 comp.protocols.iso.x400:2722 sci.crypt:27339

Burkhard Wiegel writes:

> Is there anybody out there involved in a project called "LOCATOR"?
> It is mentioned in one of the ASN.1 files of IC.

Yes, I worked on the LOCATOR project.

It was a project funded by the UK government (under the Alvey program) to do
research into secure messaging for mobile systems. The project finished in
about 1989; the major achievements were implementations of Internet
Privacy Enhanced Mail and the X.400(88) security features. Bear in mind that this
was a long time ago (over 6 years ago) and the state of the art in secure
messaging has advanced considerably since then.

I have all the written deliverables and the source code deliverables that I
did from LOCATOR, although these are now mainly of historical interest.

The successor to the LOCATOR project was called PASSWORD (Piloting Authentication
and Security Services Within OSI Research and Development). While LOCATOR was
a UK only project, PASSWORD was a European-wide project funded by the
European Commission under the VALUE programme. The partners were Cambridge
University, University College London, NeXor, GMD, DANET, INRIA and E3X.

The PASSWORD project aimed to take the prototype implementations developed
under LOCATOR (and other French and German projects), achieve interoperability,
improve usabilty and start a real pilot service.

The PASSWORD project finishes this month; we're in the process of writing the
final report. PASSWORD documents are available by anonymous FTP from
cs.ucl.ac.uk in the directory /password.

The written deliverables currently available are as follows:
R1.1 (document obsoleted by R1.2)
R1.2 Requirements and Policy - Introduction
R1.2 ACSE Requirements and Policy
R1.2 Office Document Architecture Requirements and Policy 
R1.2 MHS Service Requirements and Policy
R1.2 Directory Service Requirements and Policy
R2.5 Certification Authority Requirements
R2.6 User Requirements

The project produced several different implementations of the written
specifications. Some of these implementations are freely available, while
others are commercial products (or about to become commercial products).

The SecuDE implementation by GMD is available by anonymous FTP from
erde.darmstadt.gmd.de in /pub/secude.

The OSISEC implementation is available on application from UCL. It's only
distributed to selected sites, for a variety of reasons relating to the politics
of cryptography.

The MAVROS implementation is from INRIA. Availability may be subject to French
cryptography laws.

Future releases from the ISODE Consortium will incorporate security functions
developed under the PASSWORD project, with further enhancements provided by
the ISODE Consortium. (Exact details may be commercially sensitive
information, so I won't elaborate further). The ISODE Consortium release of ISODE
is a commercial product which costs money.

E3X (now owned by France Telecom) and DANET may or may not decide to release
security products. If they do, they're well worth considering. 

Other commercial developements are in progress.

Michael Roe
Computer Security Group
Cambridge University Computer Laboratory

