Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.politics.org.nsa
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!swrinde!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!sgi!wdl1!io!koontzd
From: koontzd@io.lrcs.loral.com (David Koontz )
Subject: Advertisement for Crypto Gear
Message-ID: <1994May11.213856.4428@wdl.loral.com>
Originator: koontzd@io
Sender: news@wdl.loral.com
Organization: Loral Rolm Computer Systems
Date: Wed, 11 May 1994 21:38:56 GMT
Lines: 59
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:27372 alt.politics.org.nsa:436

>From: Tommy the Tourist <nobody@soda.berkeley.edu>

>I just read an advertisement for an encryption device built by Allied
>Signal Communications Systems called the "KIV-7".  Here are a couple of
>excerpts from the advertisement:

The inside front cover of the May issue of "Military&Aerospace Electronics".

>"...it is interoperable with the Government-standard KG-84.  And, with NSA
>Type 1 Endorsement, the KIV-7 complies with the most stringent security
>requirements."

>"Even more remarkable, its Crypto Ignition Key (CIK) declassifies the unit
>and prevents unauthorized access."

Unclassified crypto hardware is a product of the CCEP effort pushed in the
mid '80s.  The idea being to protect commerical sensitive data, especially 
that of defense contractors.  Some COMSEC gear was declassified and became
Controlled Cryptographic Items (CCI) instead.

A Crypto Ignition Key contains the 'crypto state' of the machine, which
can be 'zeroized' when the CIK is removed, reverting it to its unclassified
state.  The cryptographic module contains the "classified cryptographic
algorithm" in a 'tamper resistant' package.  The same mechanism is used
in STU-III secure phones (which may use the same cryptographic algorithm).

>What, exactly is the "KG-84" standard?  Is it classified?  If not, where
>can it be obtained?  What is this "Type 1 Endorsement"?  Thanks.

The KG-84 is part of a family (KG-80) utilizing a widely used classified 
block cipher algorithm and is typically used in a token passing wide area 
network, including tactical environments.  The first KG-80 family device
showd up in 1976-77, and was intended for satellite links and communications 
trunks.

The driving force behind KG-84 compatible equipment is size, power, speed and
especially cost.  A KG-84 was larger than the device in the advertisement
and originally cost more than $120K (A heck of a lot of NRE for lots
of certification processes).

The Type 1 endorsement means that the implemenetation is rigidly reviewed
and certified to be free of failure modes leading to the inadvertant release
of classified information.  This includes red/black separation, TEMPEST
and certification of control processor code and operation.  Some additional
criteria can be found in FIPS PUB 140-1.  Centralized key distribution is 
required as well.  Type 1 devices are certified for protection of classified 
information.  

All COMSEC and CCI gear is manufactured, distributed, controlled, and used 
under the authority of the National Security Agency.  While a large part of
the documentation is unclassified, it all ultimately comes from the NSA, which
has a policy of nondistribution.  Most if not all information would be exempt
from FOIA.  The snippets you would find at trade shows or in similar 
advertisements are tantalizing at best.





