Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!gumby!yale!yale.edu!xlink.net!nntp.gmd.de!Germany.EU.net!EU.net!uunet!Oxford.COM!wos
From: wos@Oxford.COM (Olin Sibert)
Subject: National Cryptologic Museum
Message-ID: <1994May12.034311.6806@Oxford.COM>
Organization: Oxford Systems, Inc.
Date: Thu, 12 May 94 03:43:11 GMT
Lines: 86

I visited the National Cryptologic Museum the other day.  As others have
said, it's kinda small, but pretty neat.  Well worth an hour or so if
you're in the DC/Baltimore area (9:00 AM to 3:00 PM, weekdays).  Not
much technical material, and little that I haven't seen in pictures here
and there, but very interesting to see the machines all together there.

It's easy to find: the exit (Route 32 East off Route 295 Baltimore
Washington parkway) has a little brown "National Cryptologic Museum"
sign, and I think there are about five more of those signs in the mile
or so of driving after that.  It is, indeed, right behind the Shell
station at the exit.  It's about 10 minutes away from Baltimore airport.

It's one big room with a bunch of exhibits and some staff to answer
questions.  In approximately chronological order, these are the
exhibits I recall:

Assorted old crypto books, including Trithemius's Polygrafica
19th-century Jefferson cipher-disk machine
American Civil war cipher disks, miscellany
World War I radio monitoring station
Yardley exhibit: books, deciphered diplomatic correspondence 

American SIGABA machine
British TYPEX machine with SIGABA compatibility box
Japanese Coral machine
Japanese Purple machine fragment (one of 3 in existence)
German Enigma machines
  Army (3-rotor)
  Air Force (3-rotor)
  Naval (4-rotor)
  Commercial machine (4-rotor, no plugboard), several models
  Naval U-boat model (4-rotor with printer)
  A couple of disassembled units/components and spare rotors
  Plus:  a 3-rotor machine for hands-on use (neat!)
German Lorenz SZ-40/42 ("Tunny") machine
German Siemens T-52 Geheimschreiber ("Sturgeon") machine
Soviet copy of an electro-mechanical Hagelin machine
Photos of U.S. Bombes at OP-20G, but no pieces

Soviet exhibit: 1960-vintage spy radio, photos from KGB museum (no crypto)
Exhibit on U.S.S. Liberty (NSA monitoring ship accidentally attacked)
Exhibit on early NSA computer technology: tape drive from IBM Harvest, 
  assorted photos, plus a 1960-vintage analog (!) computer
Cray X-MP24 with windows to see the insides
Exhibit on NSA's IC fabrication lab
Plus a handful of picture/story plaques on notables in the field:
  (e.g., Safford, Friedman, Rejewski & crew)

The Museum will be adding 1200 square feet in May/June, including a
bunch of new hands-on exhibits.  It wasn't clear to me whether these
would be mostly real equipment or computer-generated demonstrations,
though one exhibit will be a pair of STU-IIs.  There's also a library
available on request "to serious researchers".

There was essentially nothing cryptologic post-WWII, but I was surprised
to see what seems like a current-day treatment of the IC fabrication
facilities.  The old crypto books are in amazingly good condition: they
look like ordinary (if somewhat aged) books except that they're mostly
in Latin.  Nothing about Bletchley, nothing about Hagelin (except the
copied Soviet machine)--the non-U.S. stuff is almost all from various
WWII enemies.  I also thought the exhibit on the IBM Harvest don't
really do it justice--I hope they'll add more on that in the future.

It was a surprise to me how BIG some of the machines are.  They're
beautiful examples of mechanical engineering, but many don't even look
suitcase-portable--and they must be pretty heavy, too.  The SIGABA
looked small enough for one strong person to move, but pretty much all
the others (except Enigmas) looked like hand-truck material.  Clearly,
the Enigma's portability was a big advantage operationally, and made up
for a good deal of inconvenience in actual use (which worked best with
three operators: one to read the message, one to press the keys, and one
to record the lights as they light up).

The staff was very friendly: one gentleman helped me use the Enigma,
showed me how to set the wheels and plugboard, etc.  It's a lot
different to actually use a real one than just to know how it works.
We had a nice chat about how the operators' bad habits and mistakes
made the thing much more breakable--and having played with the
machine, it's a lot easier to see how those habits came about.  He
also gave me a look at an M-209 machine that wasn't yet on exhibit.

Recommended.

-- 
Olin Sibert           |Internet: Sibert@Oxford.COM
Oxford Systems, Inc.  |UUCP:     uunet!oxford!sibert
