Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!gumby!yale!yale!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: 75126.1722@compuserve.com (William Hugh Murray)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Security of Crypto Systems
Date: 14 May 1994 09:27:29 -0400
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Lines: 35
Sender: daemon@cs.yale.edu
Message-ID: <940514132439_75126.1722_FHD22-1@CompuServe.COM>
NNTP-Posting-Host: babyblue.cs.yale.edu

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

>Schneier describes more serious chosen-ciphertext attacks (p. 286).
>Basically, if I can trick you into signing messages that I choose, I can
>do all sorts of nasties, ranging from reading your mail to getting you
>to sign things you don't think you're signing.

In the documentation for PGP, Phil Zimmerman includes an excellent discussion 
of the security of crypto systems.  It is brief, clear, and instructive.  

While we in this list tend to focus on the security of the cryptographic 
algorithms, for security purposes, these are rarely the weak link in the 
system.  [The British went to enormous expense to keep secret for forty years, 
the contribution of poor key management on the part of the Germans to the 
efficiency of ULTRA].

While I am not qualified to speak to the relative vulnerability of RSA v. 
other to "known plaintext" attacks,  corresponding plain and cipher text are 
always valuable to an attacker without regard to the mechanism.  Therefore, it 
is generally poor practice to encrypt messages generated by others under your 
key.  Because the diffusion of modern mechanism is high, one gets a great deal 
of protection by simply adding a time-stamp or sequence number to such a 
message before encrypting it.  Therefore, modern systems usually add 
time-stamps to ALL messages before encrypting them.

William Hugh Murray
New Canaan, Connecticut
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.4

iQBFAgUBLdSYe84Sph9i5fmDAQEtaQF+JqVUZeXMQPytRyxwsW2BVwpWzmhTjAnK
62QRBaTUGlkoE8fygxSiqTJDnFSabQs6
=8MOl
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

