Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!warwick!uknet!EU.net!uunet!cds8604!Cadence.COM!lou
From: lou@Cadence.COM (Louis K. Scheffer)
Subject: Re: NSA ahead of civilian hardware?
Message-ID: <lou.768899453@cadence.com>
Sender: usenet@Cadence.COM (Usenet News)
Nntp-Posting-Host: caber.cadence.com
Organization: Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
References: <strnlghtCppI7s.Bqw@netcom.com> <tcmayCppr46.G39@netcom.com> <strnlghtCpq8nA.ItA@netcom.com>
Date: Sat, 14 May 1994 07:10:53 GMT
Lines: 37

In <strnlghtCpq8nA.ItA@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:
>> could David elaborate on what he means here about what the Harvest project 
   implies?

>Sure. It meant that the NSA has had, and likely continues to have hardware
>dramatically more powerful than anything in civilian use, and thus
>calculations about their capabilities based on conventional workstation
>capabilities, for example, are probably far off the mark, as are
>calculations about, for example, Connection Machines we know about.

This is a reasonable conclusion for serial problems, but uses the wrong
metric for parallelizable problems such as factoring.  In a parallel
problem, you want the most cost effective hardware, not the fastest.
Given a fixed amount of money, you'll get the answer faster with a pile
of workstations than a set of super Crays.

Historically, the NSA has not been nearly as good as the commercial market
in cost effectiveness.  After all, that's the main goal of much of the
commercial market.  Building parts on prototype equipment, accepting low
yields, selecting parts, specialized fabs, and all the other tricks that 
are useful when trying for maximum performance at any cost all fail 
when the target is cost effectiveness.  

So the NSA may well have a super Cray, or a massively parallel machine beyond
the commercial market.  However, for any given amount of money, they would
get factoring results faster and cheaper by using the most cost effective 
techology they can get.  So computations based on workstations (or the
memory content of workstations, since you don't need the display and keyboard,
and hardly need the processor) are probably very close to what NSA can do.
Note that the main component here, memory, is driven by the personal computer
market.  This market is extremely large, and constantly competing on cost-
effectiveness.  I doubt the NSA can do much, if any, better.  After all, if
the government was good at cost-effectiveness they certainly would not have
their current troubles trying to re-direct government contractors into the
commercial market!

   -Lou Scheffer
