Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!panix!ddsw1!chinet!schneier
From: schneier@chinet.chinet.com (Bruce Schneier)
Subject: EUROCRYPT '94 - A completely subjective summary
Message-ID: <Cpt7qn.30n@chinet.chinet.com>
Organization: Chinet - Public Access UNIX
Date: Sat, 14 May 1994 20:32:46 GMT
Lines: 114

Eurocrypt '94 was held on 9-12 May in Perugia, Italy.  Springer-
Verlag will publish conference proceedings in about a year. 
Until then, here is a list of what I thought were the most
interesting talks of the conference.

"Feedback Shift Registers Based on Ramified Extensions of the 2-
adic Numbers," M. Goresky and A. Klapper.  The title is a
mouthful, but this is really cool stuff.  You all know what
linear feedback shift registers are; they've been the workhorse
of military cryptography for years.  There's a whole lot of
mathematical theory that supports this area of cryptography. 
What this paper describes is another type of shift register,
called the feedback with carry shift register (FCSR).  It turns
out that FCSRs can be mathematically modeled using the 2-adic
numbers, and that there are many analogies between LFSRs and
FCSRs.  Just as there is linear complexity, there is 2-adic
complexity.  There is a 2-adic analog for the Berlencamp-Massey
algorithm.  And so on.  Some sequence generators that look very
complex when modeled with LFSRs are simple to analyze with FCSRs. 
The point is that there is whole other world of shift registers,
just as interesting and useful as LFSRs, that no one (in the
unclassified world) has explored before.  I was impressed.

"Message Recovery for Signature Schemes Based on the Discrete
Logarithm Problem," K. Nyberg and R. Rueppel.  These people have
done cryptography a great service.  They have taken a whole pile
of digital signature schemes based on the discrete logarithm
problem (ElGamal, Schnorr, DSA, Agnew-Mullen-Vanstone, Yen-Laih,
etc), and have shown that they are all different flavors of the
same basic algorithm.  The authors described 108 different
digital signature algorithms (if you count variations based on
sign changes).  Even better, the authors have shown how to modify
any of these algorithms to do message recovery (a.k.a.
encryption), although the 108 algorithms collapses to only 36.  I
think this is a very important piece of work, because it means
that further research can be done on the whole family of
algorithms, and not on individual ones.  And implementers can
choose an algorithm out of the family that best meets their
implementation needs: minimizing inverses for a software
implementation, etc.  I feel this paper finally shows that
Schnorr's claim of patent infringement is invalid: DSA is not a
derivative of Schnorr, they are both derivatives of a single
meta-scheme.

"On Correlation Between the Order of S-boxes and the Strength of
DES," M. Matsui.  This is the cryptographer that invented linear
cryptanalysis.  What he did is look at all the permutations of
the DES s-boxes with respect to differential cryptanalysis.  The
official order is almost optimal against differential
cryptanalysis, but is a poor choice for linear cryptanalysis. 
No, he did not give a permutation that is good against both, but
may do so in the final paper.  Anyway, the real contribution of
this paper is an algorithm to search for the best s-box order. 
This algorithm is not limited to DES, and can be used with most
any block cipher.

"Can DSA be Improved?  Complexity Trade-Offs with the Digital
Signature Standard," D. Naccache, D. M'Raihi.  This is a
collection of modification to DSA, some good, some not so good. 
I like the variant that allows the verifier to verify a batch of
signatures all at once.   If they are all good, the protocol
stops.  If one if bad, he does a cut-and-choose protocol to find
the bad one.  To me, this finally silences the criticism against
DSA that it would be slow for applications where lots of
signatures need to be verified at once, such as electronic-cash
applications.  There is also a modification to eliminate the
time-consuming 1/k calculation, one to compress signatures, and a
couple of others.  He has a new way to certify primes which
embeds q into p.  This is a clever idea, but I am not convinced
that it doesn't reduce the entropy of the key.

"Designated Confirmer Signatures," D. Chaum.  Read that part of
my book about Undeniable Signatures; these are signatures which
require the participation of the signer to verify.  Their
applications are in commercial data sales; you want to sign the
data, but you only want someone who legally purchased the data to
be able to verify the signature.  This is a modification of that
protocol, which allows someone to create an undeniable signature
but to designate someone else to be the confirmer.  This
confirmer can then help someone else verify the signature, but
still cannot sign.

"The Self-Shrinking Generator," W. Meier and O. Staffelbach. 
This is a variant of the shrinking generator, which was presented
at Crypto 93.  Instead of using one LFSR to decimate another
LFSR, the self-shrinking generator uses odd bits of its output to
decimate the even bits.  A nice piece of work.

"Visual Cryptography," M. Naor and A. Shamir.  I don't know how
useful this is, but it is really cool.  It's a visual one-time
pad.  An image can be split into two ciphertext images (well, one
ciphertext image and one key image), such that overlaying one
image onto the other reveals the original image.  It looks really
cool on an overhead projector, and is probably a great way to
explain cryptography to children.

There were some good talks at the rump session; I don't have
copies of the papers and I don't know if they will be in the
final proceedings.  L. Knudsen and X. Lai proposed an attack on
the parallel-DM hash function.  L. Knudsen found a class of weak
keys for DES and LOKI, if they are used as a hash function. 
(Don't worry; they are so few that the odds of choosing one at
random is negligible.)  E. Biham showed that triple-DES in CBC
mode, with triple-DES as the block function, is more secure than
a whole lot of alternatives.  There was a new blind signature
scheme proposed, a cursory analysis of GOST, and other things.

There are a lot of things I am leaving out, but this is getting
long and I am getting tired.  I am still out of e-mail contact
range, and will remain so until the beginning of June.

Cheers,

Bruce
