Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!uknet!EU.net!uunet!Oxford.COM!wos
From: wos@Oxford.COM (Olin Sibert)
Subject: NSA/IBM Harvest computer system
Message-ID: <1994May15.012903.5052@Oxford.COM>
Organization: Oxford Systems, Inc.
Date: Sun, 15 May 94 01:29:03 GMT
Lines: 78

Harvest was a modified version of the IBM Stretch machine built to NSA's
specifications. It incorporated some special functional units for
operations of cryptographic significance (various operations on bit
vectors), as well as an automated tape library ("Tractor") that managed
a terabyte of near-online data stored on 2-inch metal tape.  The Museum
has an actual Tractor tape drive and some reels on display.  There was,
I infer, a close connection between the tapes and the special functional
units, allowing tape data to be processed at high speed without a lot of
buffering and copying.  Harvest was accepted by NSA in February 1962,
and operated until 1976.  Only one was ever built, and was "said to be
almost twice the size of Stretch"

It would be interesting to know exactly what those "special functional
units" actually did--perhaps the Museum has Harvest manuals in its
library.  I haven't pursued this.

The goal of the Stretch project (started in 1955) was to achieve a
performance improvement of 100 times over the commercial state of the
art (in 1955, this was the IBM 704).  The machines, few of which were
ever delivered (first delivery, to Los Alamos, was in 1961), didn't
quite reach this goal, and Thomas Watson actually refunded portions of
the advance payments from customers because he felt that IBM hadn't
delivered on its promises.

The Harvest system was a somewhat more impressive achievement than
Stretch alone because of its impressive storage-management capabilities.
Unlike raw performance, which was soon exceeded (by CDC machines, among
others), the Tractor tape system continued to define the state of the
art (still all in secret) for quite some time.  I don't know what might
be called the first successor to Tractor.  The IBM 2321 data cell had
some of the same capabilities, and even more promise had it ever really
worked--but its mechanical aspects never quite achieved reliable
operation (as anyone who's ever pushed on a string will understand).

The Harvest (and Stretch) is a testament to what can be accomplished
with a lot of engineering dollars and smart people to spend them.  It's
not clear whether it's also a testament to how much operational
difficulty can be mitigated by an army of on-site dedicated field
engineers.  IBM was famous for its intense customer support, and I'm
sure Harvest was no exception.

I don't know, though, what all this implies in terms of NSA's being
"ahead".  The Harvest's capabilities are impressive, but a major reason
they were so far in advance of the state of the art is that the
commercial world wasn't interested in managing that much data, that way,
at the time (and indeed, not for many years afterward).  So, sure, they
were way ahead, but in an area of little commercial importance.  They
weren't so far ahead in raw performance.  On the other hand, today, fast
implementations for sieving aren't really of commercial importance,
either... and a substantial speedup does appear possible with custom
memory architecture.  In terms of basic technology, the advantage may be
small, but as always, custom applications will always benefit from
increased engineering effort.

By the way, the Harvest exhibit at the Museum is by no means its first
appearance in public.

Harvest is discussed in "Memories that Shaped an Industry - Decisions
Leading to the IBM System/360" (Emerson Pugh; MIT Press, 1984), and
described in detail in "IBM's Early Computers" (Charles Bashe, Lyle
Johnson, John Palmer, Emerson Pugh; MIT Press, 1986).  I believe there
are some Annals of the History of Computing articles on it as well.  My
summary above is drawn from those books; any errors are mine.

There's no discussion of Harvest or its special components in the
Project Stretch memoir "Planning a Computer System" (Werner Bucholz;
McGraw Hill, 1962), so it was apparently still secret then.

Those MIT Press books are a very interesting look at early computing
from a commercial perspective (IBM's, in this case, but still reasonably
balanced).  That's something one doesn't find too often in the academic
and historic literature.  I highly recommend them; there's a third by
the same authors ("IBM's 360 and Early 370 Computers") that I haven't
read but expect to be of the same quality.  As it happens, the Press is
having a sale, through June 30 (about $15, $30, and $25, respectively).
-- 
Olin Sibert           |Internet: Sibert@Oxford.COM
Oxford Systems, Inc.  |UUCP:     uunet!oxford!sibert
