Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!tcmay
From: tcmay@netcom.com (Timothy C. May)
Subject: Re: NSA ahead of civilian hardware?
Message-ID: <tcmayCpxA9z.6yr@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 261-4700 guest)
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
References: <strnlghtCppI7s.Bqw@netcom.com> <CpqxK5.I1y@ulysses.homer.att.com> <EACHUS.94May16153301@spectre.mitre.org>
Date: Tue, 17 May 1994 01:17:58 GMT
Lines: 105

Robert I. Eachus (eachus@spectre.mitre.org) wrote:

(and some D. Sternlight quotes are included later)

:    Chip manufacturers know that to "win" design-ins, they need to make
: early turns of chips available for evaluation and development.  The
: people who work with such prototype boards and documentation know that
: what they have is not perfect. (Although usually they are "almost"
: perfect if you are very finicky about cooling and voltage levels, and
: don't try to push the timing.)  But normally there are things called
: non-disclosure agreements.  (Telling you which ones I have signed
: would be a bit silly wouldn't it? ;-) But I can tell you that the
: availability of parts (and specs) under NDA at MITRE is about the same
: as when I worked on the commercial side of the fence.

This is true from the perspective of the commercial chip houses, but
not necessarily from that of the TRW-Rockwell-Federal Systems sorts of
companies. Caveat: I worked for 12 years for Intel, mostly in
memories. 

Point: It is true, as Robert Eachus notes, that even under an NDA, the
"lead" gained by the government, for example, would be slim at best,
in obtaining things like Pentiums (Pentia?) and PowerPC chips. (In
fact, the government is usually _far_ behind, asking companies like
Intel when the mil-spec 286 will be available....I gather things are
getting better these days, with even 486-based machines being bought.)

Point: In the late 1970s and early 80s, the government funded a large,
expensive program called "VHSIC," for "Very High-Speed Integrated
Circuits." My company, Intel, chose not to participate (almost
certainly a wise move, in retrospect), but many companies did. Among
them were TRW, Rockwell, Texas Instruments, Gigabit Logic (I think,
though they may have been in the "GaAs Initiative" sort of funding
area). etc.

How does this relate to cryptography and whether NSA could be ahead of
the civilian sector?

Well, I don't know for sure, but it seems plausible that some of these
multimillion transistor chips (in 1983-4!) went into DoD systems of
various kinds. (These multimillion transistor chips were, in 1984,
several years ahead of what was commercially feasble to build for the
mass market.) We know that some of the TRW signal processing chips
went into special radar and other SIGINT systems, so is it not
plausible that NSA was a customer as well? Almost certainly for their
own SIGINT purposes, and perhaps for cypher-breaking. NSA has a long
history of funding computer companies (Engineeering Research
Associates, Control Data Corporation, Cray Research, Thinking
Machines, Inc., etc.), so this would hardly be surprising.


:   > Finally, NSA has, someone here says, their own chip fab factory
:   > and can run with yields that would be so uneconomical for
:   > commercial use that no commercial vendor would produce chips--but
:   > the NSA might be willing to take such low yields to get some
:   > super-parallel, super-fast machine that would drive a commercial
:   > chip fab into bankruptcy even for sampling quantities at such
:   > yields.

It was me who pointed out that National Semiconductor was commissioned
to build a fab for NSA. But this was several years back, and fabs
become trailing-edge rather quickly. My best guess would be that NSA
uses the on-site fab as a secure facility to generate low- to
medium-density chips for code machines and the like.

The "super-parallel, super-fast machine" was probably the Connection
Machine. The CIA, FBI, and Central Security Service (Fort Meade) are
known users, and the funding sources for TMC these last 10 years have
been "unusual."

My Conclusion: NSA, CSS, NRO, and other such "superspook" agencies
have the budget to buy some machines which are a few years ahead of
what the commercial market is buying. (This was seen most clearly in
the case of Cray, where NSA took delivery of the first or second Cray,
and the commercial market (geophysics, natch) did not seriously begin
buying Crays for a few years after the first deliveries to the "spooks
and nukes.") However, such a minor headstart makes little difference
to the security of modern cyphers, as we have have discussed many
times. Factors of a few just don't matter.

:     (Sorry to respond to St**nlight, but he was responding to one of
: my posts, and implying that MITRE does not know what it is doing in
: this area.  Of course, I doubt he could damage anyone's reputation in
: this newsgroup other than his own.)

Why not respond to his points? The good or interesting ones are worthy
of response, the bad or boring ones are ignorable. The issue of how
much hardware NSA can throw at a problem is certainly an interesting
and appropriate thread for sci.crypt.

(By the way, thanks to Paul Leyland for correcting my "trillion"
estimate on how much harder a 1024-bit key will be to factor than was
RSA-129. As Paul and others have noted, making such estimates is an
invitation to embarrassment.)


I find that looking for what's interesting is much more profitable,
and less stressful, than looking for pointless arguments. 

--Tim May
-- 
..........................................................................
Timothy C. May         | Crypto Anarchy: encryption, digital money,  
tcmay@netcom.com       | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
408-688-5409           | knowledge, reputations, information markets, 
W.A.S.T.E.: Aptos, CA  | black markets, collapse of governments.
Higher Power: 2^859433 | Public Key: PGP and MailSafe available.
"National borders are just speed bumps on the information superhighway."
