Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!torn!nott!cunews!walkey
From: walkey@doe.carleton.ca (David J. Walkey)
Subject: Why isn't crypt exportable? (Was: Is there a PD "crypt"?)
Message-ID: <Cq03t8.D1L@cunews.carleton.ca>
Sender: news@cunews.carleton.ca (News Administrator)
Organization: Carleton University
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
References: <CpwuFz.J31@cunews.carleton.ca> <CpzGpq.1An@eng_ser1.ie.cuhk.hk>
Date: Wed, 18 May 1994 13:51:08 GMT
Lines: 45

CHIU Chong-kan (ckchiu@cs.cuhk.hk) wrote:
: walkey@doe.carleton.ca (David J. Walkey) writes:

: >Is there a public domain version of the "crypt" program around? That is,
: >a program which is functionally compatible with crypt but which I could
: >get in Canada (the sun OS shipped to Canada doesn't have crypt, but then
: >I guess everyone in this group knows that already!). I got the pgp25
: >program, but I can't tell from a quick glance if it is compatible with
: >crypt, even if I could get it to compile. Thanks.

: Well, are you talking about crypt(1) included in UNIX OS ?  Yes,
: it is restricted to export to other countrie but I'm sure you
: can find it from some ftp-sites.  But, why do you want it ?  It's
: just a toy program and *CANNOT* protect your private documents
: AT ALL.  Some even claim they can decrypt that so-called "encryption"
: within a matter of minutes.  So, still want it ?

: PGP is not compatible with crypt(1).  I'm sure I'll drop my PGP
: program if I find out they are in fact the same one day ;)

: --
: Chong-kan Chiu
: Department of Computer Science
: The Chinese University of Hong Kong
: Shatin, Hong Kong
: E-mail address : ckchiu@cs.cuhk.hk
: Phone no.      : (001-852)6098403,6098404


The reason I wanted a public domain version of crypt was because
someone I know in the US wanted to send mail encrypted with crypt,
and rather than us both trying to set up another program I thought 
it would be easier for me just to get a PD version of crypt.

This is not a sensitive application, the encryption was really just
to give first order protection against someone simply reading the mail.
I agree, though, that a progam which gives better protection would be
better, all other things being equal. I couldn't get the pgp source
to compile, but then about all I did was go into the source directory
and type "make", I think there are some other things that need to be
set up first (time to read the documentation!).

If the "crypt" algorithm is inferior, why can't the program be exported?

Dave
