Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!wupost!news.utdallas.edu!corpgate!bnrgate!nott!cunews!freenet.carleton.ca!FreeNet.Carleton.CA!ab606
From: ab606@FreeNet.Carleton.CA (Ted Reinhardt)
Subject: ENTRUST -- Northern Telecom
Message-ID: <Cq4K0t.6sM@freenet.carleton.ca>
Sender: news@freenet.carleton.ca
Reply-To: ab606@FreeNet.Carleton.CA (Ted Reinhardt)
Organization: The National Capital FreeNet
Date: Fri, 20 May 1994 23:31:41 GMT
Lines: 42
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:27791 alt.security:16770




Has anyone seen the new product developed by Northern Telecom?  It was
shown at the Canadian Computer Security Symposium (perhaps not for the
first time).  The application provides public key encryption, digital
signatures, authentication and key management.  
The session key encryption is done using CAST.  The algorithm is fast --
blazingly fast.  The ENTRUST suite has APIs that allows other developers
to build upon the product.  The other neat thing is that the key managment
is done using X.500 directory services.  This is quite a slick
implementation.  The original implementation does file encryption. 

The product is implemented on MAC, PC and I think big UNIX. 
Implementations I saw were GUI based.  

Zoomit was demonstrating an ENTRUST overlay that would work with Banyan
Mail, Shark Mail and Beyond Mail.... slick.  Others are looking at coming
to ENTRUST (problably because Nothern/BNR guys got their stuff together).

This product is going to be BIG.  The biggest downfall of the other
products is the key management complexities.  

The system is software based for now  --- but I imagine they
will migrate it into hardware of some sort eventually.

I am not sure if CAST has been the subject of public review, but I believe
it has been published before.  I think it puts out a couple of meg per
second on a 486/DX2 66 -- don't quote me on this.

If it is half as good as it looks, I am impressed.

The Entrust system was advertized in The Trapdoor Vol 5, Issue 2 April 94
edition, last page of the Canadian ISSA.

Thought this might be of interest.



-- 
Ted Reinhardt

