Path: msuinfo!agate!boulder!johnsonr
From: johnsonr@hoshi.Colorado.EDU (Richard Johnson)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Subject: Bridging Islands in Web of Trust (Was Re: A fine example of the evils of PGP)
Followup-To: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Date: 22 May 1994 23:46:19 GMT
Organization: University of Colorado at Boulder
Lines: 81
Message-ID: <2roqsb$hn3@lace.Colorado.EDU>
References: <Cq2AAA.5Es@lehman.com> <strnlghtCq7xvG.6u1@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: hoshi.colorado.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL0]
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:27868 alt.security.pgp:14271

David Sternlight (strnlght@netcom.com) wrote:
> In article <Cq2AAA.5Es@lehman.com>, Linn Stanton <lstanton@newshost> wrote:
> >People are the weakest link in every security system. PGP lets me choose
> >which people I trust, and which I don't. The RSADSI Certification
> >Authority ammounts to: "I'm bigger than you are. Trust me because I
> >tell you I'm trustworthy."

> Like all other such messages on web-of-trust, this message misses the
> elementary point that it is the reader of signed public posts that must
> decide whether to trust the key signers/certifiers, not the poster. This
> creates a major security hole in web-of-trust unless one goes to what
> amounts to a certification heirarchy similar to the PEM one. ...

We need to find ways to connect the current islands in our web of trust
into a larger, more secure whole.  A certification service could be one
way to do this.

David Sternlight goes on to explain that he believes PGP's present web-
of-trust certification model is unworkable as practiced, and gives some
reasons why he thinks a certification hierarchy is more secure.

In one sense, our current, fragmented web-of-trust is just as effective as
a whole bunch of non-connected certification hierarchies.  It works well
within a well-connected sub-web (an island), but it is not good enough for
society-wide verification of signatures.  David is right when he says we
need something more extensive.

However, a single certification hierarchy will be less palatable, and
probably less secure, than a widespread web-of-trust.  A hierarchy offers
the opportunity of a single point failure (ie, it's only as strong as the
weakest link in the hierarchical chain).  On the other hand, a distributed
web of certifications will be nearly impossible to bring down with a
failure at one point.  A distributed web is also easier to swallow, in
that it leaves the choice of whose certifications to trust in the hands of
the recipient, rather than de-facto requiring them to place their trust in
some ultimate higher-up.  Individual chains, with care, can be made very
strong, but it makes more sense to use a distributed network of reasonably
strong cables instead.  We don't need a single root, but rather need a
number of anchors for our trust.

Since certification hierarchies are subsets of a web-of-trust, can we use
something similar to the proposed (but not working?) PEM hierarchy as the
cables and anchors to link our current smaller webs?

How about setting up independent roots of alternative, high security
certification services?  Here's how I'd trust it:
    1) It follows industry security standards (published, and concensus).
    2) It has periodic, comprehensive security audits by independent 3rd
       parties, with published results.
    3) Keys from the service certified by other similar services.
    3) It allows and clearly indicates different classes or levels of
       trust the service places in the key.
Call it a multi-linked, non-directed "hierarchy" if you want. :-)

It would also be nice if the services would accept payment (if they even
want payment) via anonymous digital cash (not account-based digital
checks/debits, but true cash).  That way, I could get a key certified
solely by trusting the certification agency with my personal information.
I would not need to have, in addition, a bank account with information
that could be used by an abusive ex-spouse to find me, etc.

It would also be nice to have PGP, or news/mail front-ends that use it,
modified to _optionally_ include the certified public key in each
message.  Then we could let a net.concensus develop about whether such
extra spammage in each message was worthwhile or whether people should
just keep service keys in their own keyrings (or get them from servers).
I would argue for the latter, though less voiciferously than the
individual who started the original "Evils" thread :-).

If my key is certified by one or more of these (possibly for-pay)
certification services, then they could provide useful bridges between
the current islands in our trust web.


Richard

--
Loudyellnet: Richard Johnson | Sneakernet: ECNT1-6, CB 429, CU Boulder
Phonenet:    +1.303.492.0590 | Internet:   Richard.Johnson@Colorado.EDU
   RIPEM and PGP public keys available by server, finger or request
   Speaker to avalanche dragons.   Do you really think they listen?
