Path: msuinfo!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!po.cwru.edu!pdj2
From: pdj2@po.cwru.edu (Peter D. Junger)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Subject: Re: The Most Secure Version of PGP
Date: 23 May 1994 13:53:01 GMT
Organization: Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio USA
Lines: 98
Message-ID: <2rqcft$n8q@usenet.INS.CWRU.Edu>
References: <Cq3F1t.13q2@yuma.acns.colostate.edu> <2ro1l7$k7c@crcnis1.unl.edu> <strnlghtCq7y3q.75A@netcom.com> <2ron49$lq8@crcnis1.unl.edu> <strnlghtCq8Kw5.4sD@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: pdj2-slip.dialin.cwru.edu
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:27880 alt.security.pgp:14310

In article <strnlghtCq8Kw5.4sD@netcom.com>,

> I imply no such thing. I say that in the case we're discussing, when no
> consideration is changing hands, and one party has a patent, that party has
> an enhanced position.

But you overlook the fact that the other party has been granted a license
by the holder of the patent.  The fact that there was arguably no 
consideration for the original granting of the license--the fact that
the licensee did not pay anything for permission to use the patented
process--does not in anyway affect the validity of the license.  When
RSA gives its permission to do something, it gives that permission, whether
it gets a quid pro quo or not.

I will admit, however, that, if there were no consideration, it is possible 
that a court would be less inclined to construe the terms of the license 
against RSA and that the licensee would be less likely to have a preferred
position when it comes to interpreting the terms of the license.

But that admission won't get RSA anywhere because there was consideration:
one of the terms of the license was that the licensee has to undertake to do,
and not to do, certain things.  Those undertakings by the licensee are
classic examples of "consideration" as that term is used in first year 
Contracts classes in law schools.  "A promise for a promise" is the mantra
that first year students learn early on; though of course the case we are
discussing is a license (which doesn't require consideration to be effective)
for a promise.

Consideration would be more important if RSA tried to revoke the license,
but in that case, even if there were no promissory consideration, the 
reliance of the licensee upon the license--the licensee's actual use of
the PGP program in reliance on the license--would constitute consideration,
or would be the basis for an estoppel, that would prevent the revocation.
(As to whether reliance in such a case should be treated as consideration or
as the basis of an estoppel is a question of legal metaphysics that should
not be discussed in this news group or in polite society.)

> If someone refused to honor that enhanced position, the patent holder has
> two alternatives:
> 
> 1. To announce that the other party is not licensed. In cases where, for
> example, download sites honor patents and don't get into disputes, that
> might be all it takes;

It is unlikely that the patent holder would consider this to be a viable
option, considering that it (that is to say, RSA) has granted the license.
To make such an announcement would subject RSA to actions for libel and
for malicious interfence with advantageous relationships--and the plaintiffs
recovery could include punitive damages!  To deny the existence of the
license might also have the effect of releasing the licensee from his
undertakings, leaving the license in force, but depriving RSA of its
benefits.

Of course, RSA might try to revoke the license, on the ground that the 
licensee has violated the license agreement, but the only safe way to
do that would be by litigation, and there one would expect that any 
ambiguities in the license agreement would be construed against its 
draftsman, RSA.

> 2. To proceed against the other party for infringement. In such a case the
> tryer of fact has the last word, but note that patents are presumptively
> valid when issued, and if no consideration has changed hands for the
> license, it is highly unlikely the tryer of fact will side with the party
> charged with infringement. Only if the patent can be upset is the putative
> infringer likely to come out with a whole skin.> 

If RSA were to sue for patent infringement, the defense would be the license.
The validity of the patent would not be relevant to that defense.  Once the 
defendant established that RSA had granted the license for non-commercial
use of the PGG 2.6 software, the burden of proof and of persuasion would be 
on RSA to show that the license had been violated, something that would
be hard to prove when any ambiguities would be resolved agains RSA.  

(One must also consider the fact that it is far easier for a court to decide 
that the defendant has a valid license than it is to determine the validity
(including the constitutionality) and the scope of the RSA patent.  Any
self-respecting judge would decide for the licensee; trying the complicated
issues would, after all, get in the way of his golf game.  And anyway the 
court is supposed to construe the license agreement so as to avoid the
constitutional issue, see Justice Brandeis's opinion in Ashwander v. TVA.
As Justice Holmes once said, "hard cases make bad law"; the corollary is
that easy cases make good golfing.)

> In other words, in the case you mention, where the license language is
> ambiguous, and the other circumstances are as stated, the licensing party
> has the last word unless the claimed licensee wishes to risk infringement
> charges, legal costs, and time. This is particularly so when a licensor feel
> obliged to defend its patent position.

> One man's opinion, not "the truth".

By now it should be apparent that that opinion is remarkably misinformed.

-- 
Peter D. Junger--CWRU Law School, Cleveland, Ohio

INTERNET: Junger@samsara.law.cwru.edu
BITNET:   Junger@cwru (== Junger@cwru.cwru.edu)
