Path: msuinfo!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!po.cwru.edu!pdj2
From: pdj2@po.cwru.edu (Peter D. Junger)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Subject: Re: The Most Secure Version of PGP
Date: 24 May 1994 14:45:16 GMT
Organization: Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio USA
Lines: 82
Message-ID: <2rt3ts$1ch@usenet.INS.CWRU.Edu>
References: <Cq3F1t.13q2@yuma.acns.colostate.edu> <2rq8ou$gqi@usenet.ins.cwru.edu> <strnlghtCq9GGy.En3@netcom.com> <2rr0as$g20@nntp.ucs.ubc.ca> <strnlghtCqA5nM.JxG@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: pdj2-slip.dialin.cwru.edu
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:27937 alt.security.pgp:14463

In article <strnlghtCqA5nM.JxG@netcom.com>,
David Sternlight <strnlght@netcom.com> wrote:

> To raise a new, but relevant point to try to clarify the underlying
> philosophical issue, in contract law as I understand it from the PBS series
> on that topic, a contract requires a meeting of the minds. If there is no
> meeting of the minds there is no contract. I believe that last sentence is
> another mantra, like Peter's "a promise for a promise". Thus if RSADSI says "performance
> improvements" means speedups, and a licensee says "I assert that performance
> improvements mean I can change the key lengths wired in to make them longer"
> then there has been no meeting of the minds.

The statement that "if there is no meeting of the minds there is no 
contract" may often be used as a mantra, but it is not one that is likely
to lead to enlightenment.  The full mantra goes something like this:
"if there is no meeting of the minds _as to the essential terms of the
agreement_ then there is no contract".  That longer version of the mantra 
can be quite enlightening: if one contemplates it long enough one comes
to the realization that the set of cases as to which there was no agreement
as to the essential terms is (almost) empty; and it is this experience of
emptiness (_sunyata_ in Sanskrit) that may be taken for enlightenment.

The "meeting of the minds" phrase was invented as part of an (ultimately 
unsuccessful) effort to come up with an objective and coherent theory of
contracts; it has almost no application to actual cases.  (Which should
not be too surprising once one awakens to the fact that contract theory
has little or no contact with the actual decisions that the courts make
in contract cases.  Thus, for example, first year law students in Common
Law jurisdictions are taught the mysteries of "consideration", but there 
are few reported cases turning on the failure of consideration.)

Though there are probably a few more, I know of only two cases where the 
courts held that there was no meeting of the minds on an essential term of 
an agreement.  In the leading case, the parties agreed to ship goods on the
ship Peerless, and it turned out that there were two ships named Peerless.
In the other case that I know of the owner of a parcel of land contracted
to have a builder build a Turkish bath house on that land; due to fraud
by the architect the version of the contract signed by the landowner
provided that the price of the work would be $20,000, while the builder's
version of the contract provided that the price would be $30,000.  The 
bath house had been built before the parties found out about the fraud. The
court (without ever mentioning anything about "meeting of the minds") held
that there was no contract and then awarded the full $30,000 to the builder
on an unjust enrichment theory.

Thus in the case that we are discussing a court would not dream of saying 
that there was no meeting of the minds on the essential terms of the license 
and the license agreement.  The only problem would be to construe the 
ambiguities in the binding license and license agreement; and in construing 
these ambiguities the court would normally give the benefit of the doubt
to the licensee who did not draft the license and the license agreement.

Think about it.  If every ambiguity in an agreement (or license) meant that
there was no contract (or binding license) then there would be damn few
contracts (or binding licenses) in this world.  Since there are lots of 
contracts (and binding licenses), one has to conclude that the requirement 
of the minds meeting is in reality not a significant barrier to contract 
formation.
> 
> Peter will be able to say whether that principle applies to licenses as well
> as contracts. As I understand it a license is simply a special form of
> contract. if so, no meeting of the minds, no license, thus any use of RSAREF
> by the person claiming to be licensed but who has "interpreted" an ambiguous
> term differently from RSADSI, particularly after being told he is so doing,
> is infringing.

A license is nothing more, or less, than the granting of permission to do
something.  It is, in itself, a completely one-sided transaction involving,
at most, only one mind.  I know of no mantra, or koan, about the meeting of
one mind.  (Of course, in the case of the RSA license for PGP 2.6 there
is both the actual license and the contract containing the promises of
the licensee and perhaps of RSA (I don't recall whether RSA promised to
do anything, of if it just granted the license in return for the licensee's
undertakings).  But, as I have explained above, no court is going to 
invalidate that contract because of an arguable ambiguity in one of its 
terms as applied to a particular factual situation.)

-- 
Peter D. Junger--CWRU Law School, Cleveland, Ohio

INTERNET: Junger@samsara.law.cwru.edu
BITNET:   Junger@cwru (== Junger@cwru.cwru.edu)
