Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!hobbes.physics.uiowa.edu!news.uiowa.edu!news
From: jones@pyrite.cs.uiowa.edu (Douglas W. Jones,201H MLH,3193350740,3193382879)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Security of splay tree codes
Date: 24 May 1994 16:36:27 GMT
Organization: University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA
Lines: 34
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2rtaeb$mqb@nexus.uiowa.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: pyrite.cs.uiowa.edu

Some years ago, I published a paper in CACM:

  Application of Splay Trees to Data Compression, Communications of the
  Association for Computing Machinery, 31, 8 (Aug. 1988) 996-1007.

In this paper, after discussing my new data compression algorithm, I
proposed, in passing, that it might make a nice encryption algorithm,
and the UNIX-based compression utility I distributed at the time of
publication included a password mechanism to illustrate the use of
this algorithm for encryption.

The focus of my work shifted elsewhere, but today, I just got a call
from someone at Lotus saying that they've been using my splay-tree
based encryption and compression algorithm in their Ami Pro product,
and now they're having problems getting an export licence.  Apparently
the NSA wants them to limit their keys to 8 characters.

This suggests that the best the NSA can do is a trial-and-error attack
on splay-tree codes.  The folks at Lotus have cracked 5 character
keys using trial and error (5 hours on a 486-based box).

I told the guy from Lotus how to use a chosen plaintext attack on splay
trees, and how to defeat it.  In short, the text aaaaaaaaa discloses
the code for a in a 256 letter alphabet, and after aaaaaaaaabbbbbbbbb,
you know the codes for a and b; building on this, you can build a
plaintext block that will synchronize the code being used so that
any following text can be decoded.  If the sender inserts some random
characters every once in a while, this chosen plaintext attack can be
defeated.

That is all I know about breaking splay-tree based encryption.  Does
anyone know more?
				Doug Jones
				jones@cs.uiowa.edu
