Path: msuinfo!agate!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!ncar!asuvax!pitstop.mcd.mot.com!mcdphx!schbbs!mothost!mdisea!mmddvan!vanbc.wimsey.com!nemesis.wimsey.com!Stu
From: Stu@nemesis.wimsey.com (Stuart Smith)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: A good laugh at the book store
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <769827435Stu.stu@nemesis.wimsey.com>
Sender: stu@nemesis.wimsey.com
Date: Tue, 24 May 94 16:57:15 pst
Organization: The Puzzle Palace
X-Newsreader: TRN for OS/2
Lines: 44

While perusing the local nerd shop for Dr. Dobbs I saw a title
that caught my eye: "TOP SECRET: Data encryption techniques"
It must be a good book:  On the cover was a picture of a
sterotypical private eye's office with a pc on the desk. (along
with a glass of whiskey, holster etc);  each page number had
"TOP SECRET" stamped across it.

The blurb on the back bills the book as a way to secure your
information from prying eyes on, for example, cross continent
mailings and such.  They also mention a $1000 cryptanalysis
contest.

Opening the book, you find the crytanalysis context and some
ciphertext (preceded by important sounding headers).  What can I
say, it was a jumble of letters, numbers & punctuation, but as
some one wiser than I once said: "[the output of] bad
cryptography looks just like good cryptography"

Finally I got to the table of contents and I just about lost
it.  The first chapter is mono-alphabetic substitutions.  ok..
fair enough to start, so I go down the list to see how they
develop from there.. they go to transpositions and then to
polyalphabetics and then... THAT'S IT!

There is source code in basic and an included disk.

This wouldn't be so bad if it was billed as an *intro* or a
children's book on secret writing, but it looks as if the writer
(if not the publisher in any case) really beleived that the
methods contained were secure.

oh well.. good for a laugh in any case.  I wonder if its worth
the $25 to buy it, crack the contest's code and have a chance
at that $1000.. probably not..

(if anyone wants to take a look, it's put out by SAMS
publishing, if anyone *really* wants I could go back and jot
down some more info :)

--
 Baba baby mama shaggy papa baba bro baba rock a shaggy baba sister
shag saggy hey doc baba baby shaggy hey baba can you dig it baba baba
E7 E3 90 7E 16 2E F3 45 * Email for PGP key * 28 24 2E C6 03 02 37 5C 
   Stuart Smith                           <stu@nemesis.wimsey.com>
