Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!lyra.csx.cam.ac.uk!rja14
From: rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (Ross Anderson)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,uk.telecom,com.security.misc
Subject: Re: Unsecure Cash machines
Date: 25 May 1994 12:06:24 GMT
Organization: U of Cambridge Computer Lab, UK
Lines: 57
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2rvf00$rea@lyra.csx.cam.ac.uk>
References: <2rj0i2$6q4@ugle.unit.no>
NNTP-Posting-Host: ouse.cl.cam.ac.uk
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:27993 alt.security:16835


In article <2rj0i2$6q4@ugle.unit.no>, knutson@Lise.Unit.NO (Gunnar Knutson) 
writes:

|> A while ago here in Norway, there was quite a lot of rumors about the 
|> security of cash machines

The case, Behne v Norske Bank (Bankklagenemnda Sak nr 93457/93111), is an
instructive one.

As readers of this group are probably aware, there are basically two
approaches taken by banks to ATM complaints - in sensible countries such as
the USA and Denmark, they give customers who complain their money back, while
in Britain they maintain that their systems are infallible, so the customer
must be mistaken, or lying, or the victim of a theft by one of his family
or friends.

Banks elsewhere in Scandinavia follow the US policy of being nice to their 
customers; but in Norway they have gone and spent millions on smartcards. Behne 
was the first test of how this would affect the customers.

There, a number of people at Trondheim University had ATM cards stolen and used. 
They are quite adamant that their PINs could not have been compromised by any 
negligence of theirs, and as the nearest ATMs are some distance away in town, it 
is unlikely that someone got the PINs by looking over their shoulders.

Dawn Behne's case was the first to get to the Norwegian banking ombudsman
(Bankklagenemnda). The ombudsman went to the bank and asked for technical
details of the payment system; the bank refused on the grounds that passing 
this information to any outsider (even a consultancy firm) would endanger 
security. The central bank then got involved; they had a meeting with the bank
which would not even supply them with technical information, but gave them
`managerial assurances' that the system was sound. The central bank relayed
these assurances to the ombudsman, who decided against Behne.

However, the disputed transactions violated the card cycle limits; the thief
should not have been able to draw more than NOK 11,000 during the period, but
in fact got away with NOK 18,000. The difference of NOK 7,000 was refunded
without any explanation.

Perhaps I'm just ignorant of the subtleties of banking systems, but to me it all
looks like a blatant cover-up of an application blunder.

Interestingly, banks in countries like America, where customer complaints are
treated decently and which therefore end up liable for the cost of fraud, 
generally don't think that expensive security measures such as smartcards
and hardware encryption devices are worthwhile. It is only in places like
Britain that all the banks buy hardware security modules - presumable so they can
boast about them to the judge and get out of paying what they owe.

The Behne case shows that this principle operates in reverse as well. The
Norwegian banks, having spent a lot on security, have become just as 
intransigent as the English.

So perhaps computer security isn't such a good thing after all,

Ross
