Path: msuinfo!agate!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!news.umbc.edu!olson
From: olson@umbc.edu (olson bryan ( ms cmsc))
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.privacy
Subject: Re: "Interesting Stuff" Checkers at the NSA
Followup-To: sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.privacy
Date: 25 May 1994 22:00:40 GMT
Organization: University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Lines: 59
Message-ID: <2s0hq8$a01@news.umbc.edu>
References: <Cq2934.q0@chinet.chinet.com> <strnlghtCq3F3t.4sp@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: f-umbc8.umbc.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:28030 alt.security:16841 alt.privacy:15884

David Sternlight (strnlght@netcom.com) wrote:
: In article <Cq2934.q0@chinet.chinet.com>,
: Bruce Schneier <schneier@chinet.chinet.com> wrote:
: >This is from a flyer that NSA people have been distributing:
: >
: >     NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY --  TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER
: >
: >     Information Sorting and Retrieval by Language or Topic

: Do you know if the NSA is giving this away or selling/licensing it?

Last I knew they were buying such a system from a company in Northern
Virginia (something like Excalibur Technology).  I saw a demo of a
product which fits every claim in the description.  They emphasized
that it doesn't use any built in knowledge of language, and that it
tolerates errors (mostly optical character recognition errors).  There
are several other similar systems around and being researched, and I
suppose the NSA may use those too.

: I'd love to have a quick summary of how they do
: this. 

I can tell you how the salesman described it, which may give you a
feel for how it works, but doesn't include the algorithms for doing it
efficiently.

It's a fuzzy matching system.  It doesn't look at known words,
just patterns of bits, and has some distance function to match
them to other patterns.

Similar languages will share a lot of bit strings.  Similar topics
will have a many in common with each other which are not in common
with others of the same language.

The demo didn't show it grouping like documents together, but they did
demonstrate basic searching.  To search, you enter a bunch of words or
phrases.  The program rates the documents as to how well they
correspond, and gives you the best matches.  It doesn't use a boolean
criteria; this word or that word.  If you give it a word, documents
which have that word are scored higher, documents without it a little
lower.  If you give it two words in a row and they are also
consecutive in the document, that raises its score all the more.

The system I saw uses an index (of sorts) which is updated as
documents are added.  They emphasized that it's a fuzzy index,
not a keyword index.  I don't know what the actual contents are
and I'd like to.

Not knowing actual words and semantics is actually a bad thing.
Some research systems can recognize synonyms, or even tell that
a matching word shouldn't count since they are used differently.

I was really impressed by the system and I think it could be a
terrific research tool.  Probably also a good marketing tool;
enter a lot of features and it finds products which correspond.

I don't know where to direct follow-ups on this one.

--Bryan
