Path: msuinfo!agate!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!swrinde!pipex!uknet!EU.net!uunet!usenet.elf.com!sundog.tiac.net!max.tiac.net!huricane
From: huricane@max.tiac.net (Pierce Nichols)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: flaws, please...
Date: 27 May 1994 14:04:54 GMT
Organization: The Internet Access Company
Lines: 31
Message-ID: <2s4um6$7nd@sundog.tiac.net>
References: <2041@complex.complex.is>
NNTP-Posting-Host: max.tiac.net
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

Fridrik Skulason (frisk@complex.is) wrote:
: I am having an argument with a person who thinks he has discovered a new and
: brilliant encryption method....it looks seriously flawed to me, and I am
: pretty ruse it is not new, but I would like some comments.

: Basically the idea is that the key is the seed in a pseudo-random number
: benerator, which outputs a string of bits, guaranteed not to repeat
: for a much longer period than the maximum size of messages that can be
: encrypted.   The message is then just XORed with this string.  He also says
: he can get 2^64 different bit streams, depending on the initial key.  

: Now, as far as I can see...if the same key is used only once, this basically
: boils down to the problem of securely transporting the key, right ?  Even if
: somebody had the algorithm and an encrypted message, there is no feasible way
: to attempt decryption....

: However, the major problem that I see is that he doen't agree with me that it
: would be necessary to use each key only once.   Now, assuming one got two
: messages, which had been XORed with the same key, knowing something like that
: both contained ASCII text, it seems to me (if the messages are long enough)
: that it should be possible to break this...xoring the two messages together
: would eliminate the key, and frequency analysis of the result might go a long
: way towards retrieving the original messages.....or am I missing something ?

	It's called a stream cipher. Some are secure, most are not. The 
security depends on the PRNG used. If it is any sort of linear system, it 
can be solved very easily - in fact, if it is a linear shift register, 
a known plaintext attack can break it with a single matrix inversion. 
Have him post his PRNG, so we can take it to pieces and analyze it.
	Hurricane

