Path: msuinfo!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!usc!cs.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: R._Braithwaite-Lee@magic-bbs.corp.apple.com
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Cryptos with back doors
Date: 27 May 1994 14:20:28 -0500
Organization: M A G I C
Lines: 41
Sender: nobody@cs.utexas.edu
Message-ID: <1994May27.062713.1070990@magic-bbs.corp.apple.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: news.cs.utexas.edu

To: John Payson,supercat@MCS.COM,Internet

JP> Alternatively, if one has a version of, say, PGP in object-only form, 
JP> is there any way to know that the "session-keys" have not been chosen 
JP> so as to specifically allow cryptotext-only attacks against the 
JP> PRIVATE KEY?

Of course, if you don't trust your copy of PGP you have even bigger
problems. For example, PGP can encrypt for multiple recipients. An easy
back door would be to always include a specific recipient, whose public key
is 'bundled' into the program itself and doesn't show up in your keyring.
No need for complicated attacks--any copy of PGP will decrypt your messages
if the user has the corresponding private key, and your copy seems to work
just fine.

But as for your original question, if someone can find a way to derive a
private key from chosen plaintexts to attack RSA, then RSA has been broken
in any general case. This is because you can *always* encrypt whatever you
like with a public key system. As for your own private key, if your copy of
PGP has been compromised, then you are in deep trouble. Your private key is
encrypted with a passphrase and stored in your private key ring. Naturally,
a compromised version could ignore your passphrase and do anything it
wants. An attacker could then read your private key if she had access to
your hard disk. Worse, your copy of PGP might only generate specific
pre-programmed private keys, say by a deterministic algorithm derived from
the ID you enter. In that case, an attacker could reproduce your private
key as soon as you revealed your public key with the ID attached.

I'm running on a bit. Moral: don't use a crypto program you don't trust.
(This should not be construed as a comment on Clipper. Clipper is good. The
US Govt knows what's good for you. Relax. Enjoy.)

Regards,
Reginald !:-)

Public Key Fingerprint: D8 B8 C1 D0 DD 56 20 B4  06 A2 81 83 87 E8 8B 64
(Send message with subject "HELP" to pgp-public-keys@pgp.ox.ac.uk)

please cc: all replies and follow-ups to 73114.2055@compuserve.com. Thanks!


