Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!sunic!trane.uninett.no!eunet.no!nuug!EU.net!uunet!uswnvg!arobson
From: arobson@uswnvg.com (Andrew Robson)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Quantum computers render public key systems vulnerable
Message-ID: <31890@uswnvg.uswnvg.com>
Date: 28 May 94 01:21:56 GMT
References: <2rs9jn$b9i@galaxy.ucr.edu>
Sender: news@uswnvg.uswnvg.com
Followup-To: sci.physics.research,sci.math,sci.physics
Lines: 133
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]

The following extract from an article in sci.physics.research
seems to explain the situation pretty well.  *If* quantum computers are
useful at all, they should do a pretty good job of destroying the
privacy of public key systems.

Andy

John Baez (baez@ucrmath.ucr.edu) wrote:
:
: This Week's Finds in Mathematical Physics (Week 34)
: John Baez

: A bit of a miscellany this week....

: 1) Algorithms for quantum computation: discrete log and factoring,
: extended abstract by Peter Shor.

: There has been a bit of a stir about this paper; since I know Peter
: Shor's sister I was able to get a copy and see what it was really all
: about.  

: Quantum computers are so far just a theoretical possibility.  It's
: easiest to see why machines that take advantage of quantum theory might
: be efficient at computation if we think in terms of path integrals.  In
: Feynman's path-integral approach to quantum theory, the probability of
: getting from state A at time zero to state B some later time is obtained
: by integrating the exponential of the action

:                         exp(iS/hbar) 

: over *all* paths from A to B, and then taking the absolute value
: squared.  (Here we are thinking of states A and B that correspond to
: points in the classical configuration space.)  We can think of the
: quantum system as proceeding along all paths simultaneously; it is the
: constructive or destructive interference between paths due to the phases
: exp(iS/hbar) that makes certain final outcomes B more likely than
: others.  In many situations, there is massive destructive interference
: except among paths very close to those which are critical points of the
: action S; the latter are the *classical* paths.  So in a sense, a
: classical device functions as it does by executing all possible motions;
: motions far from those satisfying Newton's laws simply cancel out by
: destructive interference!  (There are many other ways of thinking about
: quantum theory; this one can be difficult to make mathematically
: rigorous, but it's often very handy.)  

: This raises the idea of building a computer that would take advantage of
: quantum theory by trying out all sorts of paths, but making sure that
: paths that give the wrong answer cancel out!  It seems that Feynman was
: the first to seriously consider quantum computation:

: 2) Simulating physics with computers, by Richard Feynman, 
: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, Vol. 21, nos. 6/7, 
: pp. 467--488 (1982).

: but by now quite a bit of work has been done on the subject, e.g.:

: 3) Quantum mechanical Hamiltonian models of Turing machines, by P.
: Benioff J. Stat. Phys., Vol. 29, pp. 515--546 (1982).

: Quantum theory, the Church--Turing principle and the universal quantum
: computer, by D. Deutsch, Proc. R. Soc. Lond., Vol. A400, pp. 96--117
: (1985).

: Quantum computational networks, by D. Deutsch, Proc. R. Soc. Lond.,
: Vol. A425, pp. 73--90 (1989).

: Rapid solution of problems by quantum computation, by D. Deutsch
: and R. Jozsa, Proc. R. Soc. Lond., Vol. A439, pp. 553--558 (1992).

: Quantum complexity theory, E. Bernstein and U. Vazirani,
: Proc. 25th ACM Symp. on Theory of Computation, pp. 11--20
: (1993).

: The quantum challenge to structural complexity theory, A. Berthiaume and
: G.  Brassard, Proc. 7th IEEE Conference on Structure in Complexity
: Theory (1992).

: Quantum circuit complexity, by A. Yao, Proc. 34th IEEE Symp. on
: Foundations of Computer Science, 1993.


: Thanks to this work, there are now mathematical definitions of quantum
: Turing machines and the class "BQP" of problems that can be solved in
: polynomial time with a bounded probability of error.  This allows a
: mathematical investigation of whether quantum computers can, in
: principle, do things more efficiently than classical ones.  Shor shows
: that factoring integers is in BQP.  I won't try to describe how, as it's
: a bit technical and I haven't really comprehended it.  Instead, I'd like
: say a couple things about the *practicality* of building quantum
: computers, since people seem quite puzzled about this issue.  

: There are, as I see it, two basic problems with building quantum
: computers.  First, it seems that the components must be carefully
: shielded from unwanted interactions with the outside world, since such
: interactions can cause "decoherence", that is, superpositions of the
: computer states will evolve into superpositions of the system consisting
: of the computer together with what it's interacting with, which from the
: point of view of the computer alone are the same as mixed states.  This
: tends to ruin the interference effects upon which the advantages of
: quantum computation are based.  

: Second, it seems difficult to incorporate error-correction mechanisms in
: a quantum computer.  Without such mechanisms, slight deviations of the
: Hamiltonian of the computer from the design specifications will cause
: the computation to drift away from what was intended to occur.  Luckily,
: it appears that this drift is only *linear* rather than *exponential* as
: a function of time.  (This impression is based on some simplifications
: that might be oversimplifications, so anyone who wants to build a
: quantum computer had better ponder this issue carefully.)  Linear
: increase of error with time sets an upper bound on how complicated a
: computation one could do before the answer is junk, but if the rate of
: error increase was made low enough, this might be acceptable.  

: Certainly as time goes by and computer technology becomes ever more
: miniaturized, hardware designers will have to pay ever more attention to
: quantum effects, for good or for ill!  (Vaughn Pratt estimates that
: quantum effects will be a serious concern by 2020.)  The question is
: just whether they are only a nuisance, or whether they can possibly be
: harnessed.  Some designs for quantum computers have already been
: proposed (sorry, I have no reference for these), and seeing whether they
: are workable should be a very interesting engineering problem, even if
: they are not good enough to outdo ordinary computers.

[other "finds" omitted]
: --------------------------------------------------------------------------
: Previous issues of "This Week's Finds" and other expository articles on
: mathematics and physics (as well as some of my research papers) can be
: obtained by anonymous ftp from ucrmath.ucr.edu; they are in the
: directory "baez."  The README file lists the contents of all the papers.
: On the World-Wide Web, you can attach to the address
: http://info.desy.de/user/projects/Physics.html to access these files and
: more on physics.  Please do not ask me how to use hep-th or gr-qc;
: instead, read the file preprint.info.  
