Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.security.pgp,comp.org.eff.talk
Path: msuinfo!agate!news.ossi.com!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: who is David Sternlight?
Message-ID: <strnlghtCqHuKv.25u@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <2s64a6$6ao@agate.berkeley.edu>
Date: Sat, 28 May 1994 03:48:30 GMT
Lines: 32
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:28140 alt.security:16885 alt.security.pgp:14922 comp.org.eff.talk:34601


Like most nut cases, our anonymous friend writes from a black hole where
time as we know it doesn't exist.  Membership in the COFR is by election to
those who have ALREADY distinguished themselves in the field of foreign
affairs in the academic, business and government communities. It is thus not
surprising that members go on to even more distinction.

You wouldn't expect them to select Secretaries of State from dunces who
hadn't distinguished themselves.

Wait. I've got another conspiracy for the crazies. Did you know that all the
Science Advisors to the President were selected from the National Academy of
Sciences. That the heads of major university science departements were also
members of this mysterious cabal. They're probably secretly conspiring to
suppress the truth that the earth is flat, at their mysterious meetings at
their secret hideaway in Washington.

There's a huge conspiracy in the movie industry as well. Most of those
forming public opinion (and probably censoring the visits by
extraterrestrials) belong to that secret cabal, the Academy of Motion
Picture Arts and Sciences. They have a secret meeting every year in which
they give each other awards. It isn't commonly known, but all these
conspiracies are interconnected. The secret power behind the Academy, Price
Waterhouse, also has members in the Council. Some Council members have even
been seen in the same city as members of the National Academy.

Of course the National Academy of Sciences' creature, the National Science
Foundation has been funding the Internet, which is why those who REALLY know
what's going on have to post anonymously, so that their electrons and their
vital bodily fluids don't get contaminated.

David
