Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: ritter@indial1.io.com (Terry Ritter)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: One Time Pad from Keys?
Date: 28 May 1994 00:52:45 -0500
Organization: UTexas Mail-to-News Gateway
Lines: 87
Sender: nobody@cs.utexas.edu
Message-ID: <199405280550.AAA22759@indial1.io.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: news.cs.utexas.edu

 In <richardrCqGtzy.J0M@netcom.com> richardr@netcom.com
 (Richard L. Robertson) writes (on RNG design):


>You would probably want to combine that work with some recent work on
>physical sources of noise:
> [chaos references deleted]

 Since chaotic-based RNG's do not have a mathematical theory of
 cycle length, the possibility that the sequence may repeat--and
 could possibly repeat soon--must weigh heavily on a stream-cipher
 designer.  There are many other RNG techniques which do have a
 theory of cycle length, and for which proper construction can
 guarantee that this is "long enough."

 Of course, one can always combine a chaotic RNG with some RNG
 which does have a long-cycle guarantee--at the cost of running
 two RNG's.  No matter how many RNG's there are, we can always
 double that number, but we may not be happy with the resulting
 performance.

 Since the entire study of chaos was triggered by the discovery
 of ways to find and analyze order in an apparently random result,
 the use of chaotic technology in cryptographic RNG's might give
 some designers pause.  Two particularly interesting references are:

      Hammel, S., J. Yorke and C. Grebogi.  1988.  Numerical Orbits
      of Chaotic Processes Represent True Orbits.  Bulletin of the
      American Mathematical Society.  19(2): 465-469.

      "While a numerical orbit will diverge rapidly from the true
      orbit with the same initial point, there often exists a
      different true orbit with a slightly different initial point
      which stays near the noisy orbit for a long time.  We have
      developed rigorous numerical procedures to prove <this>."
      (Introduction.)

      Hammel, S., J. Yorke and C. Grebogi.  1987.  Do Numerical
      Orbits of Chaotic Dynamical Processes Represent True Orbits?
      Journal of Complexity.  3: 136-145.

      " . . . numerical orbits typically can be shadowed by true
      orbits for long time periods."  (Abstract.)


>Applied properly, you should be able to construct a cryptosystem that
>is indistinguishable by any finite test from a classical one-time pad.

 This provocative statement seems to imply that the proper
 application of the references should produce an algorithmic one-
 time pad.  First, this is a oxymoron (like military intelligence);
 no deterministic system should ever be called one-time, because
 all it takes to make it two-time (or N-time) is to reset the
 initial state.  Note that finding the initial state is exactly
 what cryptanalysis would attempt to do.

 Classical statistical RNG's have long been intended to be found
 "random" under any statistical test.  Alas, this does not make them
 good cryptographic RNG's.  Cryptographic RNG's have the additional
 requirement that it not be possible to reconstruct their internal
 state from the output sequence.  (In a conventional stream cipher
 with an additive combiner, the output sequence is easily developed
 under a "known-plaintext" attack.)

 The phrase "any finite test" is very provocative, in that it
 implies general mathematical results which apply to any possible
 test.  While there is some work which claims such results (the
 Blum, Blum and Shub RNG comes to mind), that tends to be
 impractical.

 BB&S, for example, is not just X**2 mod N, but also an extremely
 lengthy qualification of the starting seed X0.  The seed is
 required to be part of a cycle of a particular length.  Since the
 seed would normally be produced from the cryptographic key, the
 process of qualifying the seed is an unusual aspect of the BB&S
 construction.  X0 certification is required to assure theoretical
 strength, and without it there is no point in using the RNG.

 A less-constrained system with general strength results could be
 very useful, if it were fast.  The question is:  Do such results
 exist?

 ---
 Terry Ritter   ritter@io.com



