Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!news.moneng.mei.com!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: ritter@indial1.io.com (Terry Ritter)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Public Key Validation (was: Re: Announcement: Mac Crypto Interface Project)
Date: 29 May 1994 17:19:07 -0500
Organization: UTexas Mail-to-News Gateway
Lines: 139
Sender: nobody@cs.utexas.edu
Message-ID: <199405292216.RAA09213@indial1.io.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: news.cs.utexas.edu

 In <warrensCqJs9o.1F0@netcom.com> warrens@netcom.com
 (Warren F. Seltzer) writes:


>1. The fact that  you 2 guys have agreed to argue says you have some
>  minimal trust in the net.

 Nonsense.  In a discussion, We don't care *who* the other person
 is.  The purpose is open discussion, and all we care about is the
 argument itself.  We don't need to certify identity.

 One can use the network for the open communication without
 trusting it with respect to security.


>This makes sanse since the cost of spoofing
>  the argument is greater than the value of the argument.  (Not trying to
>  offend, here...)

 Well, since the argument is intended to be open, and I don't care
 who answers, the term "spoofing" really cannot apply.  If a
 "spoofer" replies instead of someone else, I could care less that
 it is a "spoofer" talking.

 However, if the issue is the "cost" of spoofing, we have to
 consider that the main "cost" may be the installation of software
 on other people's computers to re-route messages.  Possibly less.
 Messages which are not ciphered do not incur any costs for
 deciphering and re-enciphering under the correct key.  So the
 "cost" of spoofing may be almost zero.


>2. Merging together our society's pre-existing authentication/certification
>  systems into on-line crypto should be sufficient for buying and selling
>  over the net, hiring, and passing around Trade Secrets with remote
>  employees and contractors.

 Interesting conclusion.  It may be false starting at hiring, and
 is certainly false with respect to Trade Secrets.

 The issue is spoofing.  It is cheap and easy.  To the extent that
 any particular secret has worth, it is at risk.

 One way to combat spoofing is to verify or certify public keys
 through a second (non-email) channel.  Does society do this?


>3. The outline of a certification scheme for non-criminals can be seen from
>  EXISTING on-line business transactions that are operating now for Internet
>  Service Providers (like PSI, Netcom, Delphi...) and with on-line Bookstores
>  like Powells in Portland.  You first communicate via Net or even phone,
>  exchanging basic data like phone number, name and address.  At some point
>  the Retailer mails you something to fill out and sign.  You do that and mail
>  it back.

 At this point, the retailer has communicated via a second channel;
 when they receive your response, they are thus pretty sure that you
 have access to that address.  Unless key-checking has been performed,
 however, the retailer has not established a secure communication
 link.


>If you had your ID and/or Public Key on the form, and had the
>  signature Notarized...  You each could be pretty darn sure of the
>  person at the other end.

 Well, the company can be sure that there exists some person who
 wants to be called thus-and-so.  Still, a notarized signature is
 just about the minimum sort of evidence there is; probably the
 easiest possible forgery is a notary stamp.

 The thing that makes commercial identity certification reasonable
 is the extent to which it brings in more orders and profits than
 deadbeat losses.  It simply does not require extreme certainty.
 But the common social mechanisms which are sufficient for shipping
 goods are probably not going to be sufficient for holding secrets.


>  I suppose you could say the Notary Public is part of a Centralized Authority,
>  but it's really more like a Web-of-trust situation.  Or "WEBS of trust...".

 First of all, this is certainly a sort of hand-driven snail-mail
 certification scheme, and even at that, the identity certification
 is not very strong.  While a cryptosystem without any certification
 whatsoever might benefit from it, a decent cryptosystem should not
 need it.  And, since systems without certification certainly do not
 demand it, only those users who are security-sensitive will end up
 with even passable security.

 Of all the people who voice their concern on sci.crypt about the
 strength of RSA keys or IDEA, how many of those actually do verify
 the public keys they use?  Which is the greater threat?


>  Don't forget to verify phone numbers using the phone book.

 There has been a running discussion on sci.crypt about the security
 of RSA keys, and lots of comments suggesting the use of ever-larger
 keys.  Suppose a huge key could be broken in several years of
 searching by a billion-dollar plant with 1,000 employees.  Now
 suppose one alternative would be the construction of a phone book
 with changed numbers.  Do you think this would be a problem?
 (Probably one could learn how to change just one page.)


>QUESTION:  If we generate our public keys properly, shouldn't we gain some
>    security if we put BOTH our public key and email address onto our
>    business cards ?

 Your security is as good as the validity of a particular key.

 If the alternative is using that billion-dollar plant and 1,000
 employees for two years, do you think that the construction of a
 forged business card would be a problem?

 How secure is the area in which you keep the business cards you
 get?



 Basically, Seltzer's argument is that identity certification already
 exists in society to some extent, and is tested daily, and we really
 do not need more.

 My argument is that this is fine for commercial transactions, which
 are, of course, about total profit and loss.  Losses happen, and
 are budgeted.  Deadbeats get dunned, and so on.  But goods are not
 shipped on the net, and physical goods can only be in one place at
 a time.

 On the other hand, information could be shipped on the net, and
 could easily be intercepted by a spoofer if the public keys had not
 been validated.  Neither end would know anything was wrong.
 Is this really the same sort of problem?

 ---
 Terry Ritter   ritter@io.com


