Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!swrinde!pipex!sunic!trane.uninett.no!eunet.no!nuug!EU.net!uunet!newstf01.cr1.aol.com!search01.news.aol.com!not-for-mail
From: whmurray@aol.com (WHMurray)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Fundamental measure of "security"???
Date: 30 May 1994 17:58:02 -0400
Organization: America Online, Inc. (1-800-827-6364)
Lines: 49
Sender: news@search01.news.aol.com
Message-ID: <2sdnha$q3b@search01.news.aol.com>
References: <2sdl5i$ar2@paperboy.ids.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: search01.news.aol.com

In article <2sdl5i$ar2@paperboy.ids.net>, alavarre@ids.net writes:

>Is there an accepted standard basic measure of the "security" of a 
>code?  

No.  "One cannot say anything significant or useful about the
security of any mechanism or system except in the context of a
particular application or environment."  One can satisfy oneself as
to this with a few simple thought experiments about bank vaults.  You
will quickly discover that you must make assumptions and that these
necessarily involve statements about the contents of the vault.

In the case of most codes we can make some statements about the
amount of work involved in a particular kind of attack.  However,
these do not easily convert into statements about the security of the
code.

Statements about the security of a code involve complex tradeoffs
between secrecy, complexity, key length, key entropy, key life,
message length, message value (i.e., the value of a succesful
attack), message life (i.e., value plotted against the elapsed time
of attack), and message entropy.    Each of these can be shown to
interact with each of the others and with the results.

While it is fairly easy to make statements about specific mechanisms
and applications, and while some mechanisms can be demonstrated to
have a trivial cost of attack for most applications, there are no
generally accepted and useful ways in the abstract.

Another simple thought experiment is the "one-time-pad."  For a
sufficiently long, noisy, and short-lived key, even a such a public
and simple mechanism as modulo-2 addition will serve.  Is this the
most secure mechanism or the most trivial?  Easy to answer in the
context of an application or assumptions about it but impossible
without them.  

Yet a third is to try to compare the security of such fundamentally
different mechanisms as Feistel ciphers and RSA mechanisms.  Again
easy in the context of application assumptions.

If there were, the noise level in this forum could be reduced
greatly.  Just watch the noise generated by this post.  Amateurs and
professionals alike will propose metrics; they will all prove to be
useless or application dependent.  

William Hugh Murray
New Canaan, Connecticut.


