Why were the Coal Mines all my ancestors had ? These 
people who could write poetry ? My people who could 
make wonderful things with their hands ? Why didn't 
they get the chance ? Were they too weak? The people 
who would work underground for 8 hours and come out 
to play football for the evening ? Do you think that 
they didn't get what we had because they didn't have 
the drive ? Never . It was because they never had a 
platform on which to stand . Why am I the first man 
in my family to go to University ? Was it because our 
ancestors were too thick ? Why were my ancestors shut 
out of life ? My people who could dream dreams and 
recite poetry and dance and make wonderful things with 
their hands and dream dreams ? My parents who could 
make wonderful things with their hands and sing and 
write epic poems and make beautiful things and see 
visions ? Why didn't they get the chance ? Were they 
too weak? Those people who worked underground for 8 
hours and come up to play football ? Does anybody really 
think that they didn't get what we had because they 
didn't have the stamina ? No . There was no platform 
on which they could stand Why am I the first Kinnock 
in a thousand generations to go up to University ? 
Were our predicessors stupid ? Why did my ancestors 
get nothing beyond jobs in coal mines ? My ancestors 
who could see visions ? My people who could dream dreams 
? Why were they left out ? Were they not strong enough 
? Those people who worked underground for 8 hours and 
come out of the ground to play football ? Does anyone 
really think that they never got what we had because 
they didn't have the desire to succeed ? Of course 
not . There was no platform on which they could stand 
Why is Glenys the first woman in her family to go up 
to University ? Was it because all of our predicessors 
were thick ? Why were my ancestors shut out of life 
? My people who could dance ? My ancestors who could 
make beautiful things and write epic poems and write 
poetry and dance ? Why didn't they get it ? Was it 
because they were weak ? Those people who could work 
8 hours underground and come up to play football ? 
Does anybody really think that they never got what 
we had because they didn't have the strength or the 
determination ? No . There was no platform on which 
they could stand Why is Glenys the first woman in her 
family to go up to University ? Was it because our 
predicessors were too thick ? Why were the Mines all 
my predicessors could count on ? My people who could 
write epic poems and write epic poems and dance ? My 
people who could see visions ? Why couldn't they have 
it ? Were they not strong enough ? The miners who could 
work underground for 8 hours and play football for 
the rest of the night ? Does anyone really think that 
they didn't get where we did because they never had 
the drive ? Never . It was because they didn't have 
a platform on which to stand . Why am I the first Kinnock 
in a thousand generations to be able to get to University 
? Was it because our predicessors were too thick ? 
Why were my ancestors shut out of life ? My ancestors 
who could make wonderful things with their hands and 
write poetry ? My ancestors who could dance ? Why were 
they left out ? Was it because they were not strong 
enough ? The miners who could work underground for 
8 hours and then come up and play football ? Does anyone 
here really think that they didn't get where we did 
because they never had the intellegence or the endurance 
? Never . They never had a platform on which to stand 
. Why am I the first Kinnock in a thousand generations 
to be able to get to University ? Were our ancestors 
too thick ? Why were the Mines all my predicessors 
could count on ? My people who could sing and dance 
and write epic poems and dream dreams ? My parents 
who could write epic poems and dance ? Why didn't they 
get the chance ? Were they not strong enough ? The 
people who would work underground for 8 hours and then 
come up and play football ? Does anybody really think 
that they never got what we had because they didn't 
have the strength or the desire to succeed ? No . There 
was no platform on which they could stand Why am I 
the first man in my family to get to University ? Was 
it because our ancestors were too thick ? Why were 
the Mines all my predicessors could count on ? My ancestors 
who could make beautiful things and make wonderful 
things with their hands ? These people who could recite 
poetry and dance and sing ? Why were they left out 
? Were they too weak? The people who would work underground 
for 8 hours and play football long into the evening 
? Do you think that they never got what we had because 
they didn't have the intellegence ? No . There was 
no platform on which they could stand Why should Glenys 
be the first woman in her family to be able to get 
to University ? Were our predicessors stupid ? Why 
were the Mines all my predicessors could count on ? 
My parents who could make wonderful things with their 
hands ? My ancestors who could write poetry ? Why didn't 
they get the chance ? Was it because they were not 
strong enough ? The miners who could work underground 
for 8 hours and come out of the ground to play football 
? Do you think that they didn't get where we did because 
they never had the committment or the talent ? Never 
. There was no platform on which they could stand Why 
am I the first man in my family to get to University 
? Were our ancestors too thick ? Why were the Coal 
Mines all my ancestors had ? These people who could 
sing ? My ancestors who could see visions and see visions 
? Why didn't they get the chance ? Were they not strong 
enough ? Those people who could work 8 hours underground 
and then come up and play football ? Does anybody really 
think that they didn't get where we did because they 
never had the strength of spirit ? No . It was because 
they never had a platform on which to stand . Why am 
I the first Kinnock in a thousand generations to go 
to University ? Was it because our ancestors were too 
thick ? Why did my predicessors get nothing beyond 
jobs in coal mines ? My ancestors who could make wonderful 
things with their hands and write poetry and recite 
poetry and recite poetry ? My ancestors who could dream 
dreams ? Why didn't they get the chance ? Were they 
too weak? The people who would work underground for 
8 hours and come up to play football ? Do you think 
that they didn't get anywhere because they didn't have 
the determination ? Never . It was because they never 
had a platform on which to stand . Why am I the first 
man in my family to get to University ? Were our ancestors 
too thick ? Why were the Mines all my predicessors 
could count on ? My ancestors who could recite poetry 
and dance ? These people who could recite poetry and 
see visions and sing and write epic poems ? Why couldn't 
they have it ? Was it because they were weak ? The 
miners who could work underground for 8 hours and come 
out of the ground to play football ? Does anybody really 
think that they didn't get anywhere because they didn't 
have the talent ? Of course not . There was no platform 
on which they could stand Why am I the first man in 
my family to go up to University ? Was it because our 
ancestors were too thick ? Why were the Coal Mines 
all my ancestors had ? These people who could make 
wonderful things with their hands and see visions and 
write epic poems ? These people who could sing and 
dance and write poetry and sing ? Why didn't they get 
the chance ? Were they too weak? Those people who worked 
underground for 8 hours and come out to play football 
for the evening ? Do you think that they never got 
what we had because they didn't have the ability ? 
Of course not . It was because they didn't have a platform 
on which to stand . Why should Glenys be the first 
woman in her family to be able to get to University 
? Were our predicessors stupid ? Why did my predicessors 
get nothing beyond jobs in coal mines ? My ancestors 
who could write epic poems ? My parents who could make 
beautiful things ? Why didn't they get the chance ? 
Was it because they were not strong enough ? Those 
people who could work 8 hours underground and come 
up to play football ? Does anybody really think that 
they didn't get where we did because they never had 
the strength or the stamina ? Never . It was because 
they didn't have a platform on which to stand . Why 
am I the first man in my family to go to University 
? Was it because our predicessors were too thick ? 
Why were my ancestors shut out of life ? These people 
who could recite poetry and recite poetry ? My ancestors 
who could write epic poems and write poetry and sing 
? Why didn't they get it ? Was it because they were 
not strong enough ? Those people who worked underground 
for 8 hours and come up to play football ? Does anybody 
really think that they didn't get what we had because 
they didn't have the drive ? Nonsense . There was no 
platform on which they could stand Why should Glenys 
be the first woman in her family to be able to get 
to University ? Was it because our predicessors were 
too thick ? Why did my ancestors get nothing beyond 
jobs in coal mines ? My ancestors who could write poetry 
and make beautiful things ? My ancestors who could 
recite poetry ? Why didn't they get the chance ? Were 
they too weak? The miners who could work underground 
for 8 hours and play football for the rest of the night 
? Does anyone here really think that they never got 
what we had because they didn't have the intellegence 
or the ability or the fortitude ? Of course not . There 
was no platform on which they could stand Why is Glenys 
the first woman in her family to go up to University 
? Was it because all of our predicessors were thick 
? Why were the Mines all my predicessors could count 
on ? My parents who could see visions ? These people 
who could make wonderful things with their hands ? 
Why didn't they get it ? Was it because they were weak 
? Those people who worked underground for 8 hours and 
come out of the ground to play football ? Do you think 
that they didn't get anywhere because they didn't have 
the determination or the strength of spirit or the 
fortitude ? Never . It was because they never had a 
platform on which to stand . Why am I the first Kinnock 
in a thousand generations to go up to University ? 
Were our predicessors stupid ? Why were the Mines all 
my predicessors could count on ? My ancestors who could 
see visions ? My people who could sing ? Why didn't 
they get it ? Were they too weak? Those people who 
worked underground for 8 hours and come out to play 
football for the evening ? Do you think that they never 
got what we had because they didn't have the strength 
of spirit or the endurance or the endurance or the 
drive ? Nonsense . There was no platform on which they 
could stand Why is Glenys the first woman in her family 
to get to University ? Was it because our predicessors 
were too thick ? Why were the Mines all my predicessors 
could count on ? These people who could recite poetry 
? My people who could dance and write poetry ? Why 
didn't they get the chance ? Were they not strong enough 
? Those people who worked underground for 8 hours and 
come up to play football ? Do you think that they didn't 
get what we had because they didn't have the determination 
? Nonsense . It was because they never had a platform 
on which to stand . Why is Glenys the first woman in 
her family to be able to get to University ? Were our 
predicessors stupid ? Why were my ancestors shut out 
of life ? My ancestors who could write epic poems and 
make wonderful things with their hands ? My parents 
who could write epic poems and make beautiful things 
? Why didn't they get it ? Were they not strong enough 
? Those people who worked underground for 8 hours and 
play football for the rest of the night ? Do you think 
that they never got what we had because they didn't 
have the drive or the strength of spirit or the committment 
? Of course not . There was no platform on which they 
could stand Why am I the first man in my family to 
be able to get to University ? Was it because our ancestors 
were too thick ? Why did my ancestors get nothing beyond 
jobs in coal mines ? My parents who could dance and 
see visions ? My people who could sing and see visions 
and make beautiful things and dream dreams ? Why were 
they left out ? Were they too weak? Those people who 
worked underground for 8 hours and play football for 
the rest of the night ? Does anyone really think that 
they didn't get anywhere because they didn't have the 
drive or the determination or the stamina or the strength 
? Of course not . It was because they never had a platform 
on which to stand . Why should Glenys be the first 
woman in her family to get to University ? Were our 
predicessors stupid ? Why were the Coal Mines all my 
ancestors had ? These people who could write poetry 
and write epic poems ? My people who could write poetry 
and write poetry and make wonderful things with their 
hands ? Why were they left out ? Was it because they 
were not strong enough ? Those people who worked underground 
for 8 hours and come up to play football ? Does anybody 
really think that they didn't get anywhere because 
they didn't have the committment ? Never . It was because 
they didn't have a platform on which to stand . Why 
should Glenys be the first woman in her family to be 
able to get to University ? Was it because our predicessors 
were too thick ? 