README File for the Multiprecision Package and Translator Programs

32-bit computer version
Update as of June 11, 1993

The following files are included in the "shar" file accompanying this file:

Name            Description

mpfun.f         MPFUN library file
testmp.f        Test program for MPFUN
transmp.f       TRANSMP program
testran.f       Test program for TRANSMP
testran.out     Reference output of test program

These programs should work correctly on any 32-bit system, including
those based on IEEE arithmetic.  For Crays or other 64-bit systems,
request separate versions of these programs from the author.

On Unix systems, the following sequence compiles the MPFUN library;
compiles, links and executes the test program for MPFUN; compiles the
TRANSMP translator program; translates the test program for TRANSMP;
compiles, links and executes the translated program; and compares the
output of the translated program with the reference output file:

Command                           Notes

f77 -c mpfun.f                    Insert -O2 or -O3 after f77 for an 
                                     optimized compile.  There should
                                     be no fatal compiler diagnostics.
f77 testmp.f mpfun.o              There should be no fatal compiler
                                     diagnostics.
a.out > testmp.out                Check testmp.out to make sure all
                                     tests passed.
f77 -o transmp transmp.f          There should be no fatal compiler
                                     diagnostics.
transmp < testran.f > tranout.f   Check the end of tranout.f to make
                                     sure there are no fatal translator
                                     errors.
f77 tranout.f mpfun.o             There should be no fatal compiler
                                     diagnostics.
a.out > tranout.out               This should complete normally.

diff tranout.out testran.out      There should be no differences here.

On IBM workstations, the four f77 lines should be replaced by

xlf -O -c mpfun.f
xlf testmp.f mpfun.o
xlf -qrecur -qcharlen=1600 -o transmp transmp.f
xlf tranout.f mpfun.o

On HP workstations, comment out the two IMPLICIT AUTOMATIC statements
in the transmp.f file before compiling.  On DEC workstations, comment
out these two lines and compile with the command

f77 -automatic -o transmp transmp.f.

These codes have been tested quite thoroughly, but a few bugs may
remain.  If you encounter any, please let me know and I will fix them
as soon as possible.

David H. Bailey
NASA Ames Research Center
Mail Stop T045-1
Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000
Tel.: 415-604-4410
Fax:  415-604-3957
E-mail: dbailey@nas.nasa.gov

