Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!jvnc.net!yale.edu!spool.mu.edu!uunet!ogicse!unmvax!sci.ccny.cuny.edu!eleni.gc.cuny.edu!timessqr.gc.cuny.edu!cunyvms1.gc.cuny.edu!DLV
From: dlv@cunyvms1.gc.cuny.edu (Dimitri Vulis, CUNY GC Math)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Public Battle Over Secret Codes, John Markoff, NYTimes May 7
Message-ID: <1992May9.024351.14072@timessqr.gc.cuny.edu>
Date: 9 May 92 02:43:51 GMT
Sender: news@timessqr.gc.cuny.edu (USENET News System)
Reply-To: dlv@cunyvms1.gc.cuny.edu
Organization: Computer Center, CUNY Graduate School, New York NY 10036
Lines: 237


                       A Public Battle Over Secret Codes
                                By JOHN MARKOFF
 
                   THE NEW YORK TIMES, THURSDAY, MAY 7, 1992
 
<Who should hold the keys to the codes? In a digital age that finds more and
more information protected by elaborate coding techniques, both the
Administration and business executives are asking that question.>
 
An issue long relegated to testy grumbling between software engineers and
intelligence agents has suddenly grown into a public dispute between the Bush
Administration and business executives.
 
In a digital age that finds more and more information protected by elaborate
coding techniques, both sides are asking: Who should hold the keysto the codes?
 
Not the Government, say members of an increasingly militant computer and
software industry. Apple Computer, Microsoft and Sun Microsystems are among the
companies vowing to oppose Federal efforts to keep tight control on the use of
coding technology, known as encryption.
 
``There is really no way to control this technology,'' said nathan P. Myhrvold,
vice president for advanced technology at Microsoft. ``What are you going to
do, call up John Gotti and tell him that it's illegal to use coded technology?
All regulations do is hurt people who are trying to be law-abiding and it's a
nightmare for business users who are trying to protect information.''
 
Technique available to all
 
Once a tool only of diplomats, military officers and spies, advances encryption
techniques have become avaibale to anyone with access to cheap computer chips.
 
Nowadays, virtually all information can be translated into digital form and
protected ith electronic codes --- whether is it a cellular telephone
conversation, electropnic memo, medical record, corporate payroll, television
program or cash from the automated teller machine. And advances in hardware and
software have made these codes virtually uncrackable to anyone not knowing the
precise string of letters or numbers that represents the key to translating the
encypted informatiom.
 
A House Judiciary pantel will hear testimony on the issue today, for the second
time in nine days, as Congress ponders whether to resurrect legislation that
would give intelligence officcials a greater ability to monitor the use of
encryption by businesses and individuals.
 
An alternative move, favored by a growing number of industry executives, would
be to scale back Government control of computer encryption, by curtailing the
powerful National Security Agency's broad jurisdiction over the private use and
export of encryption technology. The President has vowed to veto such a bill.
 
In his concluding remarks at last week's hearing, Representative Jack Brooks,
Democrat of Texas, chairman of the subcommittee, indicated that business
executives would have a chance in the next session to present their case. ``We
need to examine closely the claims by industry that the current attempts by
U.S. intelligence and law-enforcement agencies to restrict this technology will
seriously impair privacy and technological development in our country'', he
said.
 
Working on Differences
 
The computer industry had been trying for months to work out its differences
quietly with the N.S.A., the secretive Pentagon branch whose job it is to
protect the military's computers and conduct global electronic intelligence
gathering. But dissent within the industry and the convening of Congressional
hearings have brought the dispute into the open.
 
Since the first computers appeared in the 1940's, old-line manufacturers like
I.B.M. have traditionally cooperated --- however grudgingly --- with
national-security and law-enforcement officials to keep computer codes out of
the wrong hands and the, keys in the right ones. Such cooperalion was wise in
the days when the military and the Federal Government were the largest computer
customers. And during the cold war, it was easier for the Government to defend
its policies.
 
New Attitude Among Companies
 
But lately, the younger generation of companies that grew up selling business
computers, including Apple, Microsoft and Sun, has dug in its heels. The
companies argue that Government efforts to stifle encryption, technology is not
only wrong but futile, putting American business at a disadvantage to foreign
competitors who face few constraints in creating and using encryption.
 
``The most important security measures in which any of us engage in our daily
business no longer have anything to do with safes, locks guards or badges,''
said Whitfield Diffie, a computer researcher at Sun Microsystems and one of the
nation's leading cryptographers. ``Modern security technology has transplanted
written signatures and the simple act of recognizing a colleague from the
traditional world of face-to-face meetings and pen-and-ink communi- cations to
a world in which digital electronic communications are the norm.''
 
The banking industry is also concerned about the threat of legislation, that
would force software makers to provide a ``trap door'', making it easier for
Federal agents to decipher encrypted files. The industry currently transmits
$350 trillion a year via encrypted wire transfers, and each day United States
banks transmits 350,000 encoded messages transfer ring funds to other nations.
 
Changing encryption techniques not only would compromise the security of
computerized banking transactions but would cost many millions of dollars, said
John Byrne, general counsel for the American Banking Association.
 
But Government officials see any costs or inconveniences to business as the
trade-off for maintaining law and order. ``This is a very real problem'', said
Kier Boyd, deputy assistant director of technical services of the F.B.I.
``Somebody who has a rudimentary knowledge of cryptography can generate
something on a personal computer which would give us fits as far as reading
it.''
 
The genie, indeed, is out of the bottle. Officials at the Information
Technology Association of America, a computer industry trade group, recently
obtained a copy of a commercial program called Cryptos written by programmers
in Moscow.
 
Cryptos, which runs on a standard I.B.M. personal computer, encodes data by the
two most popular techniques. One is the United States Data Encryption Standard,
whicti the N.S.A. established in 1977 to foster a commercial encryption format
that businesses could use (and the Govemment could read, as needed). The.
second is known simply as RSA, an, encryption format widely adopted for,
business use.; it was developed outside the N.S.A.'s sphere by academic
researchers. The Cryptos package, which is available in software stores in
Moscow, sells for about $200.
 
The encryption war between American industry and Government has been waged on
several fronts in recent months. Just last month, for instance, the Justice
Department began pressing Congress for a bill that would require telephone
companies to install equipment making wiretaps easier to conduct in today's
network. The limited introduction of encryption into the telephone network,
along with the widespread use of fiber optics and digital transmitters, has
made electronic eavesdropping much more difficult than in the days when
snoopers needed to do little more than hot-wire a copper phone line.
 
And it was also last month that some industry executives began charging that
the N.S.A. had played a quiet role in limiting the strength of a proposed
cryptographic standard for future cellular telephones.
 
Opposing Needs
 
``The N.S.A.'s needs run almost directly counter to the economic needs of the
country, which include the development of high-technology products based on
cryptography'', said Mare Rotenberg, national director for the Computer
Professionals for Social Responsibility, a public interest group.
 
Before the International Business Machines Corporation introduced its newest
family of mainframes in 1991, I.B.M. tried for more than a year to persuade the
N.S.A. to allow it to build a special piece of hardware that would
automatically encode information processed by the new computers. Finally, after
unsuccessful meetings that went as high as Adm. William O. Studeman, director
of the agency at the time, and high-ranking I.B.M. officials, the company threw
up its hands. It now submits individual license requests for each export sale
--- and is frequently turned down.
 
Corporate executives and industry consultants who have experience in dealing
with the N.S.A. say that despite the end of the cold war and the growing
importance of cryptography for business purposes, they expect the agency to
continue resisting any fundamental challenges to its control.
 
 
Still, industry pressure has appar ently led the agency to attempt to negotiate
a compromise with Ameri can software publishers.
 
The industry had originally backed trade legislation, still pending, which
would move control over cryptogra phy exports from the N.S.A. to the Commerce
Department. But because the Bush Administration has threat ened to veto the
legislation, the soft ware pubHshers have quietly attempted to arrange a deal.
 
But, the largest American computer makers, including I.B.M. and the Digital
Equipment Corporation, have refused to participate in the negotiations, saying
privately that the weakened RSA would not be acceotable to their customers.
 
The nominee for the jab of director of the N.S.A., Rear Adm. John M. McConnell,
declined to be inter viewed for this arIIcle. Michael S. Conn, chief of
information policy for agency, said thal national security. concerns with
cryptogrgaphy could not be dealt with in a public debate. But the agency, he
said, remains confident that it can ``continue to meet our mission demands in
light of advances in technology.''
 
---
 
Caption: Representative Jack Brooks of Texas is chairman of the subcommittees
hearing testimony on whether legislation should be resurrected to give
intelligence and law-enforcement officials greater ability to monitor the use
of coding technology by businesses and individuals.
 
---
Box: The Encryption Tug-of-War
 
As compyters left the lboratory and entered mainstream business life, the need
for privacy of electronic data and communications followed. researchers and the
Government's national security apparatus have wrestled over standards and
secrecy ever since.
 
1976 Public key approach is proposed
 
Martin E. Hellman of Stanford University and his colleagues, Whitfield Diffie
and Ralph Merkle, conceive a new, moe practical way to protect information. One
mathematical key that can be made public is used to encode the information, but
a second, secret key is needed to decypher it.
 
1977 D.E.S. becomes national standard
 
The National Bureau of Standards and the National Security Agency define the
first public national encryption standard, known as the Data Encryption
Standard. because the N.S.A. shortened the standard's proposed mathematical
key, some cryptographers say it could be broken by powerful computers.
 
1978 Government clapms down on researcher
 
Using an obscure patent law provision, the N.S.A. orders a University of
Wisconsin computer scientist, George I. Davida, to keep secret all details of a
computer security device he has dveloped or face two years in jail and a
$10,000 fine.
 
1980 Security review of reserach papers begins
 
A groups of United States mathematicians and computer scientists decide to
voluntarily submit cryptography reserach papers to the N.S.A. for review before
they are published in scientific journals.
 
1991 Scientists partly crack the code
 
Two Israeli scientists, Adi Shamir and Eli Bhiman, develop the first
mathematical technique capable of breaking the D.E.S. code under certain
limited circumstances.
 
1991 Industry attempts a compromise
 
Software executives propose a deal with the N.S.A. that would allow export of a
scaled-down version of a popular encryption format for business users. I.B.M.
and othe industry critics refuse to participatein the negotiations, saying the
compromises would make codes too easy to crack. The N.S.A. has not yet reaches
a decision on the proposal.
Dimitri Vulis
CUNY GC Math
DLV@CUNYVMS1.BITNET DLV@CUNYVMS1.GC.CUNY.EDU

Disclaimer: my Usenet postings don't necessarily represent anyone's views,
especially my own and/or CUNY's.
