Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!att!att!ulysses!ulysses.att.com!smb
From: smb@ulysses.att.com (Steven Bellovin)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Public Battle Over Secret Codes, John Markoff, NYTimes May 7
Message-ID: <16616@ulysses.att.com>
Date: 11 May 92 20:08:44 GMT
References: <1992May9.024351.14072@timessqr.gc.cuny.edu> <ARI.HUTTUNEN.92May11005754@wonderwoman.hut.fi>
Sender: netnews@ulysses.att.com
Lines: 63

In article <ARI.HUTTUNEN.92May11005754@wonderwoman.hut.fi>, Ari.Huttunen@hut.fi (Ari Juhani Huttunen) writes:
> Doesn't sound good. A code that was developed to be breakable by 
> the US government has too short a key and is now partially broken 
> by the Israelis (also).
> 
> How much of this can be verified or denied? And how much of this
> is just a consequence of the incompleteness necessary in a newspaper
> article?

There is no evidence that DES was sabotaged by the NSA.  There are
grounds for suspicion, but no evidence.  A Senate committee -- with
full top secret clearances -- investigated, and absolved the NSA.  You
may make of that what you will.  In the past, I was quite dubious.  The
Biham/Shamir results have convinced me that I was wrong.  Shamir
himself says that he believes DES to be very strong, possibly as strong
as it could be, given its basic structure.  He's also been quoted
publicly as saying that he doesn't believe that DES was tampered with.

The most serious charge was that NSA shortened the key length from 112
to 56 bits.  Apart from the question of whether it was NSA or IBM who
did any of that, the first Biham/Shamir paper on differential
cryptanalysis suggested (to me -- your mileage may vary) that the
inherent strength of DES under that attack was on the order of 56
bits.  Specifically, they found that independent selection of all 768
subkey bits (they're currently derived from the 56 bit key) did not
make any significant difference against differential cryptanalysis.
Using 112 bits instead of 56 bits therefore would not help.  And it
might even make certain types of attack easier, since the effect of
each key bit would be lessened.  For example, right now 5 rounds (out
of the 16) suffice to ensure that a change in the value of one key bit
will change, on average, 50% of the output bits.  How many rounds would
that take with a 112 bit key?

The real effect of the shorter key was to make some people worry about
brute-force DES crackers.  There have been paper designs suggesting
that such devices were feasible, but affordable only by major
governments.  I have too much respect for the cryptanalytic ability of
NSA, GCHQ, et al., to think they resort to brute force...

It's also been evident for a long time that the S-boxes were
significantly non-random.  Again, Biham and Shamir showed that the
current S-boxes are very strong.  (When Shamir gave a talk here a
couple of months ago, he said, in response to a question, that he
thought the current S-boxes were about as strong as they could be
against differential cryptanalysis.)  In fact, if I recall his answer
correctly, he said that trying to correct the one apparently-weaker
S-box would give rise to other problems.  And yes, the folks at IBM who
designed DES now admit that they knew of this attack in 1974, and that
they did indeed design DES to defeat it.

Finally, it must be emphasized that the current version of differential
cryptanalysis is not in any way a practical attack.  It's chosen
plaintext, which means that you have to use your opponent's machine and
secret key.  It doesn't work if block chaining is used.  It still needs
~2^47 encryptions.  In other words, it doesn't work in anything vaguely
approximating the real world.  It was a brilliant exercise in
cryptography, but the article was rather misleading.

Now, none of this should be taken as saying that DES is currently
secure against government cryptanalysis.  If you asked me to bet, I'd
wager that the classified community has indeed cracked DES.  But my
answer is little more than a guess.  And I have no idea when they
cracked it, or how expensive solutions currently are.
