Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:8124 alt.privacy:3830 alt.politics.elections:2043
Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!jvnc.net!darwin.sura.net!europa.asd.contel.com!uunet!hoptoad!gnu
From: gnu@hoptoad.uucp (John Gilmore)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy,alt.politics.elections
Subject: `Foiling the Compu-Tappers', NYT op-ed, May 11, 1992, p. A15
Message-ID: <29929@hoptoad.uucp>
Date: 12 May 92 16:37:05 GMT
Organization: Cygnus Support, Palo Alto
Lines: 31

William Safire's column in the New York Times has a piece in support of
privacy through cryptography.  I won't quote it all (without
permission).  Buy a Monday NYT and read it yourself -- it's worth it.

Two points from it:  "In trying to sweep back the tide of change, King
Canute-style, the F.B.I. is the front for the intelligence community,
which hates to be forced to go back to the difficult days of running
human spies.  The N.S.A. (No Such Agency) is obsolescent because its
expensive eavesdropping equipment is an offensive weapon in the coming
era of digital defense."

(My interpretation:  we are now automating privacy, the way we have
automated printing or the carriage of messages.  When we're done, no
wiretapper will be able to compete, just as typewriters and postal mail
can't compete.  NSA and FBI are working hard to slow down our automation
as much as possible though -- witness their so-far successful efforts
to avoid decent encryption in digital cellular phone standards.)

Another point Safire makes:  "Mr. Bush is on the wrong side of this issue
(and Ross Perot will take him apart on it in debate) because his mindset
is toward old-fashioned spookery and against personal privacy."

Ask any Congressional or Presidential candiate you run into, what their
position is regarding private citizens' and companies' right to encrypt
their information to keep it private.  Ask their opinion on FBI Director
Sessions' proposals to limit communications technology to what can easily
be tapped by the Government.
-- 
John Gilmore   {sun,uunet,pyramid}!hoptoad!gnu   gnu@toad.com   gnu@cygnus.com
"It isn't given to us to know those rare moments when people
 are wide open and the lightest touch can wither or heal."
