Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!att!cbnewsh!cbnewsh!wcs
From: wcs@cbnewsh.ATT.COM (Bill Stewart 908-949-0705 erebus.att.com!wcs)
Subject: Re: Foiling the Compu-Tappers, NYT op-ed, May 11, 1992, p. A15
X-Disclaimer: This is purely my personal opinion, not that of my employer.
Organization: I'm not a lawyer but I've played a politician on TV.
Date: Sun, 17 May 1992 03:59:27 GMT
Message-ID: <WCS.92May16225927@cbnewsh.ATT.COM>
In-Reply-To: GA.JRG@forsythe.stanford.edu's message of 12 May 92 21:37:35 GMT
References: <1992May12.213735.25583@morrow.stanford.edu>
Sender: wcs@cbnewsh.cb.att.com (Bill Stewart 908-949-0705 erebus.att.com!wcs)
Lines: 57

In article <1992May12.213735.25583@morrow.stanford.edu> GA.JRG@forsythe.stanford.edu (June Genis) writes:
   gnu@hoptoad.uucp (John Gilmore) writes:
   >Ask any Congressional or Presidential candiate you run into, what their
   >position is regarding private citizens' and companies' right to encrypt
   >their information to keep it private.  Ask their opinion on FBI Director
   >Sessions' proposals to limit communications technology to what can easily
   >be tapped by the Government.

   Well, since you asked :-) I support the absolute right of anyone to
   encrypt anything they damn well feel like encrypting using any
   algorithm that they want to.

   June Genis,
   Libertarian for U.S. Senate, California (long seat)

Hey, I resemble that remark too, as I'm the Libertarian candidate for
Congress from the newly-gerrymandered 6th district in New Jersey.

Freedom of speech is for everyone, and that freedom includes the
freedom to decide who you want to talk to and who you want to listen,
and the freedom to use whatever tools you want to back that up.

I think the right to privacy obviously extends to any form of information,
whether it's email, phone calls, computer files, or things we haven't
thought of yet.  While the current Government seems to think otherwise,
the 4th amendment protection against unreasonable searches of our
persons, houses, and papers apply to them as well - the fact that it
doesn't explicitly list them doesn't mean the authors of the Bill of Rights
waned them excluded, and there's a 9th amendment that covers the topic as well.

Meanwhile, encryption is a valuable technology for preserving those
rights even in the face of an intrusive government.  I don't like the
inconvenience or even the need for using it to protect myself,
just as I don't like having to use locks on my car or house to prevent theft
(I'd prefer to live in a society where everyone could be trusted),
but I'm sure glad it's available and strenuously object to any attempt
to restrict its use or make us register our keys with the government.

One of especially disturbing part of the Administration's proposal,
besides their obvious belief that they have the right to listen to all
our communications, is that they want to require us to delay
introduction of technology into our networks until they've had a
chance to figure out how to eavesdrop, and won't let us use good new
equipment if they can't.  That's worse than their ban on selling
encryption equipment to the rest of the world, another fine example of
government concern for US competitiveness :-)

Perhaps after enough years of this sort of interference with our economy, 
and our lives, people will start to realize they're not very good at it - 
the folks in Eastern Europe have already begun to get the idea.

			Pray for peace;
				Bill Stewart
-- 
				Pray for peace;      Bill
#Bill Stewart +1-908-949-0705 erebus.att.com!wcs AT&T Bell Labs 4M312 Holmdel NJ
# I'm trying to get sendmail working right; apologies if mail to me bounces.
