Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!uwm.edu!linac!att!cbfsb!cbnewsb.cb.att.com!osan
From: osan@cbnewsb.cb.att.com (Sweet Savage Grace)
Subject: Re: Cryptography to detect cheating
Message-ID: <1992May20.134022.16449@cbfsb.cb.att.com>
Keywords: copy/modify operations on programs
Sender: news@cbfsb.cb.att.com
Organization: Twilight Zone
References: <May.20.08.23.54.1992.29687@cadenza.rutgers.edu>
Distribution: usa
Date: Wed, 20 May 1992 13:40:22 GMT

In article <May.20.08.23.54.1992.29687@cadenza.rutgers.edu> masticol@cadenza.rutgers.edu (Steve Masticola) writes:
>
>It's occurred to me that one could detect copying of a programming
>assignment by keeping an asymmetrically encrypted edit history of the
>program file. If someone wanted to cheat by copying and changing
>variable names, this could be detected by matching prefixes of the
>edit histories among all assignments handed in.
>
>Is there a simpler way of doing this, that don't involve
>computationally costly public-key systems? Or are there any
>suggestions on how to prevent the histories themselves from being
>hacked?
>
	What an amusing little post!  I say amusing because I must chuckle
	at the approach and point of view. 

	There is this *perceived* problem: cheating.  There is a proposed
	solution: Big-Brotheroid traps using PK encryption or something
	similar.
	
	The solution is quite reactive, rather than proactive.  While IMO this
	is not a good way to approach problems of this nature, your method is
	quite understandable since we live in a society based on reactionary
	law and rule.  It is hard perhaps to conceive of anything else.
	Nonetheless, it will not work.  There are a million ways to circumvent
	your proposal.  A program may be copied by hand, changes made on paper
	before the editor is ever seen.  Copies could be offloaded to another
	machine, changed and reloaded.  And so it goes.

	I do not believe that cheating is the problem, but rather a problematic
	symptom of a more fundamental ill, which lies in the very structure of
	of our educational system from the kindergarten up through post grad.
	The problem is one of rigid time schedules and our system of grading.
	These two factor combine to create an atmosphere of dread, anxiety and
	panic in our students.  I'm sure we have all felt the sting of this
	at one time or another, and I will assert without reservation that this
	does more to promote failure and dishonesty in people than perhaps
	any other single factor I can think of.

	I used to teach graduate and undergraduate students in the CS dept.
	at CUNY.  I have never been a conventional thinker and that translated
	right over into my teaching.  I tried an experiment.  One section of a
	programming class (which ranged from white middle class to dyed in the
	wool ghetto humans) was treated normally for the first half of the
	semester, i.e. they were tested and graded in the conventional fashion.
	After looking at performance at midterm (including the midterm exam) I
	concluded that the students were your normal run of the mill bunch of
	people with mediocre attitudes, high anxiety and correspondingly low
	(by my standard) performance.  After midterm I made an announcement to
	the class: everyone gets an 'A', under one condition:  you attend all
	remaining lectures, unless I am notified in advance that you will not
	be able to make it. 

	The change in the class was immediate.  Student particiaption went
	through the roof, and genuine interest in what was being taught went
	up dramatically.  By the end of the term, the test scores went up by
	*20* points on the average.  There was NOT A SINGLE student doing
	worse than a very strong C+, and a C in MY classes were equivalent to
	A's in many other classes.  My standards are VERY high.

	Once the pressure for the grade was gone, the kids relaxed enough to
	allow enough oxygen to their brain to let them think for once.
	This became my standard operating procedure and it worked wonders for
	me.  I never had even one problem with this, which is saying a lot
	considering where most of the student body came from.

	I also tried allowing students to grade themselves and found them to be
	incredible honest.  I gave this up though in favor of the other method.	
	A question that may rise is "what about the department?"  i.e. what if
	it is noticed that all your students are getting A's?  I had a good
	solution there too:  the students' own work.  I simply counted the test
	scores as 5% of the grade.  I cases where I used verbal tests, the
	results were almost invariably better than with written tests and could
	*easily* justify my grades based on those results.

	I had no problem dispensing with the diseased mechanism called "grades"
	but unfortunately I could do nothing about time schedules.  Luckily
	these are of significantly smaller consequence.

	Adios kiddies!  I'm off to Florida for my dear niece's wedding.  See
	y'all next week.  Good health, good weekend to all!

	-Andy Vida-Szucs

	

	

