Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!mips!pacbell.com!hoptoad!gnu
From: gnu@hoptoad.uucp (John Gilmore)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: EE Times main editorial:  `Free Encryption!'
Message-ID: <30335@hoptoad.uucp>
Date: 22 May 92 06:30:38 GMT
Organization: Cygnus Support, Palo Alto
Lines: 57

May 18, 1992, page 26, on the masthead/opinion page.
By Loring Wirbel (a regular writer for EET, covering communications)
  (copied without permission -- subscribe to EE Times, 600 Community Dr,
   Manhasset, NY 11030)

			Free encryption!

Two weeks ago, the House Judiciary Committee heard critiques from a
range of players -- including SRI International, Computer
Professionals for Social Responsibility, and Microsoft Corp. --
arguing that the National Security Agency (NSA) should keep its
influence out of digital-encryption standards.

In its first decade of life after Harry S. Truman created the agency
in secret in 1952, the NSA not only set the pace for the computer
industry, but its very existence was kept a secret from the American
public.  In the 1950s, companies like Control Data Corp. owed a good
portion of their business plans to NSA influence.  By the early 1980s,
then-director Lincoln Faurer was admintting that the NSA was relying
largely on commercial off-the-shelf decryption platforms, since it
could no longer throw enough money around to dictate directions for
the computer industry.  With the advent of the workstation in the
mid-1980s, the NSA was reduced to purchasing Tempest-class
workstations from commercial giants like Sun to handle the bulk of its
spook work.

But while the NSA's control of computer technology vanished long ago,
cryptology remained the last bastion of agency control.  The NSA tried
to quash research in public-key cryptography in the late 1970s.  Some
researchers also believe the NSA threw its weight around with IBM and
other companies working on the National Bureau of Standards' Data
Encryption Standard (DES) in 1979, forcing the companies to base DES
on a smaller, more crackable key.  Today, the NSA's tight-fisted
management of cryptological sciences are coming under some
well-deserved attacks.

In the waning days of the Cold War, the NSA tried to bar exports of
software from Lotus Development Corp. and other companies, without
explicitly saying that the agency did not want foreign companies to
use encryption keys that the NSA found difficult to crack.

The NSA may not be an entirely irrelevant agency in the post-Cold War
era, but it is as much in need of an overhaul as the CIA is.  Since
companies in many nations already have access to advanced encryption
algorithms, such as the Rivest-Shamir-Adelman public-key technology,
it is useless for the NSA to try to shut the door of an empty barn.
Heavy-handed methods do nothing for national security, but they do
hurt U.S. competitiveness.  Congress can help reshape a post-Cold War
NSA by making clear that the agency's meddling in basic cryptological
sciences, as well as commercial technological applications, will no
longer be tolerated.

	(signed)  Loring Wirbel
-- 
John Gilmore   {sun,uunet,pyramid}!hoptoad!gnu   gnu@toad.com   gnu@cygnus.com
"It isn't given to us to know those rare moments when people
 are wide open and the lightest touch can wither or heal."
