Path: msuinfo!uchinews!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!sdd.hp.com!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!paladin.american.edu!news.univie.ac.at!hp4at!mcsun!uknet!comlab.ox.ac.uk!pcl
From: pcl@ox.ac.uk (Paul C Leyland)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: How anonymous is re-mailed "anonymous" mail?
Message-ID: <PCL.93Feb1104350@rhodium.ox.ac.uk>
Date: 1 Feb 93 10:43:50 GMT
Organization: Oxford University Computing Services, 13 Banbury Rd Oxford OX2
	6NN
Lines: 49


I've just read an anonymous post.  The relevant headers are:

	From: an8729@anon.penet.fi
	Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
	Subject: Using RSA for message encryption
	Message-ID: <1993Jan29.223411.6962@fuug.fi>

Now, without getting into any arguments about the desirability of
anonymous remailers, or about how reliable they are, I would like to
ask how anonymous the text *really* is.

Let us assume, purely for simplicity, that no-one is snooping the
connections to anon.penet.fi; that the machine is perfectly secure and
that its operator is incorruptible, uncommunicative, and so on.  Now,
under these constraints, how can we identify the author of an
anonymous post?

Clearly, if the post includes "I am J Random User" in the message
body, it is probably a lie.  Slightly more subtle might be the
inclusion of of a .signature at the end.  The Finnish site takes steps
to identify and remove them (it chops out all lines after the first
containing a "--" introducer.  This is bad news for PGP users.)

However, something that is very difficult to hide is one's writing
style.  An author's style tends to be quite characteristic: the mean
and variance of words per sentence, and letters per word; the
incidence of spelling and grammatical errors, both in type and number.
The number of adjectives; the size of vocabulary; distribution of
punctuation (I tend to like semicolons and parenthetical remarks, for
instance).  There are many such characteristics.

These methods have been used to identify re-discovered poems by
Shakespeare, for instance, not always to universal agreement.


So: how easy is it to deduce the identity of an anonymous author?


I have (at least one) anonymous account at anon.penet.fi.  Determining
the account name(s) is left as an exercise for the reader.

Paul
--
Paul Leyland <pcl@oxford.ac.uk>          | Hanging on in quiet desperation is
Oxford University Computing Service      |     the English way.
13 Banbury Road, Oxford, OX2 6NN, UK     | The time is come, the song is over.
Tel: +44-865-273200  Fax: +44-865-273275 | Thought I'd something more to say.
Finger pcl@black.ox.ac.uk for PGP key    |
