Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!paladin.american.edu!news.univie.ac.at!hp4at!mcsun!fuug!anon
From: an8729@anon.penet.fi (Hank Pankey)
Subject: Re: How anonymous is re-mailed "anonymous" mail? )
Message-ID: <1993Feb1.174459.11963@fuug.fi>
Sender: anon@fuug.fi (The Anon Administrator)
Organization: Anonymous contact service
X-Anonymously-To: sci.crypt
References: <PCL.93Feb1104350@rhodium.ox.ac.uk> <728576567snz@eloka.demon.co.uk>
Date: Mon, 1 Feb 1993 17:36:51 GMT
Lines: 57

In article <728576567snz@eloka.demon.co.uk>, oml@eloka.demon.co.uk writes:
> My concern with the security ultimately afforded by anon remailers (accepting 
> their integrity, for present purposes) lies other directions. No security is 
> afforded my msg content unless encrypted by me. It is reasonable to assume 
> that at least one, and possibly several, interested parties conduct routine 
> traffic analysis of anon remailer sites. A one-off use of an anon remailer 
> might not link me to the recipient, but a regular flow of traffic?
> 
> Assuming that an enabled third party has sufficient interest to monitor all
> throughput at an anon remailer site and I encrypt my msg. Unless the anon 
> remailer super encrypts my msg on the owtward leg, the recipient's tagged.  

One idea suggested in the literature is for you to encrypt your message
to the remailer using the remailer's public key.  The remailer decrypts
and then sends it on, after a delay in which it receives several such
messages.  The outgoing messages are sent out in a batch, ordered randomly.
(Messages also have to be padded to a standard length.)  This way, snoopers
can't pair up incoming and outgoing messages.  (This works best, of course,
if there is a fairly high volume of mail going through the remailer -
another reason to routinely use such services.)

> As far as I can see, anon remailer service only guarantees my anonymity against
> the recipient (and handlers/administrators on the down leg). Why should the 
> recipient believe/take action on a whisper in the dark? The situation seems 
> wide open to deception. If I sign the PGP encrypted message then my anonymity 
> is compromised.

Well, if I were to send mail to you under my real name, which you wouldn't
know, isn't that just as much a whisper in the dark?  The Penet anonymous
service supports replies.  If someone receives an anonymous message that
they want to ask questions about, they can just reply to the sender and ask
what they like.

Also, I'm not sure what deceptions are being suggested.  Certainly if
an anonymous message claims to be from some famous person, few would
believe it.  But if someone posts anonymously, builds up a reputation
under his anonymous pseudonym, and then sends PGP mail signed with that
pseudonym, anonymity is preserved.

But, there is another purpose for anonymity, one which isn't quite
achievable today.  That is to defeat traffic analysis.  To do this you need
more than one penet-style remailer.  In that case, you can send mail to
someone, chaining it through two remailers, with encryption at each stage.
The first remailer sees that the message is coming from you and going to 
the second remailer.  The second remailer sees the message coming from the
first and going to the destination.  No one remailer sees both your address
and the destination address.  Send the message to your destination
encrypted and signed, and you can communicate with privacy and authentication,
but free of the trivial traffic analysis possible in today's network.

>                                -= Owen Lewis =-

Hank
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To find out more about the anon service, send mail to help@anon.penet.fi.
Due to the double-blind system, any replies to this message will be anonymized,
and an anonymous id will be allocated automatically. You have been warned.
