Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!newsserver.jvnc.net!darwin.sura.net!gatech!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!pipex!demon!pizzabox.demon.co.uk!gtoal
From: gtoal@pizzabox.demon.co.uk (Graham Toal)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: How anonymous is re-mailed "anonymous" mail? )
Message-ID: <9302010355.AA06235@pizzabox.demon.co.uk>
Date: 1 Feb 93 03:55:59 GMT
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk
Lines: 40

:My concern with the security ultimately afforded by anon remailers (accepting 
:their integrity, for present purposes) lies other directions. No security is 
:afforded my msg content unless encrypted by me. It is reasonable to assume 
:that at least one, and possibly several, interested parties conduct routine 
:traffic analysis of anon remailer sites. A one-off use of an anon remailer 
:might not link me to the recipient, but a regular flow of traffic?

To make it more secure against people tapping the incoming link, you'd have
to send your message in pgp using the remailers pgp public key.  It would
then decrypt and post.

However, it would be obvious to someone watching the line that incoming
message PGP(x) was the source of outgoing message x which went out bare
minutes later.

One way to defeat this would be to inclded (encrypted) instructions to
delay reposting for some random time with a given distribution (though
this would only work if the anon remailer had a high throughput)


This scheme would also be defeated by looking at the sizes of incoming 
and outgoing messages - the correlation would be easy to spot.

A solution to this would be to pad all messages to the remailer up to
some max message size boundary - say 100K.

However, posts in and out could still be correlated by destination, eg
if every monday person A always sent something out, and every monday or
tuesday, there was a particular anonymous person posting to some
group, - well, harder to spot but not much.

New anon ids for every transaction might help.  A network of lots
of anon remailers that shuffle mail all round the world a few times
before posting it, plus keeping up a steady flow of dummy messages
to help confuse traffic analysis might help - but not much.

Basically, I can't see any way of keeping anon remailers safe from
line snoops.  Sorry.

G
