Path: msuinfo!caen!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!paladin.american.edu!gatech!hubcap!ncrcae!ncrhub2!ncrgw2!psinntp!arrl.org
From: jkearman@arrl.org (Jim Kearman)
Newsgroups: rec.radio.shortwave,alt.radio.scanner,sci.crypt
Subject: Historical Eavesdropping
Message-ID: <1104@arrl.org>
Date: 3 Feb 93 19:22:56 EST
Organization: American Radio Relay League
Lines: 107
Xref: msuinfo rec.radio.shortwave:21431 alt.radio.scanner:4033 sci.crypt:13421

If you've been following the controversy surrounding the new 
anti-scanner law, you may find this passage interesting. It's
from "The Game Of The Foxes, The Untold Story of German 
Espionage in the United States and Great Britain During World
War II," by Ladislas Farago (New York: David McKay Company, 
Inc., 1971. 

I'm quoting without permission from Chapter 48, "Tapping the
Roosevelt-Churchill Hot Line," pp 585-590.

****

	The President and the Prime Minister had reason to feel 
secure in their probing chat on their "hot line." They had been
assured by their communications experts that their radio tele-
phone link was absolutely safe from eavesdroppers, thanks to a 
device that so scrambled their voices as to become unintelli-
gible in transit. . . . A device had been developed by the Bell
Telephone System to split the frequency band into smaller bands
and jumble to normal tones of a voice, making it sound like "a
recording of a Mah-Johngg game played too fast."

	Called A-3 by its technical name, such a scrambler had 
already been installed in September 1939 on the radio-telephone
Mr. Roosevelt used for his talks. It was later improved with a
system called inversion that turned the voice upside down, so 
to speak, until it sounded like "a thin squawking, ringing with
bell-like chimes."

	Other special security measures were observed in all
transatlantic phone conversations, particularly those conduc-
ted by the President. Mr. Roosevelt used a special scrambler-
phone the Signal Corps had installed in the White House. The
President's words went by wire to the overseas switchboard in
an A.T.&T. building at 47 Walker Street, New York. There, with
all other transatlantic phone calls in a special security room,
the A-3 equipment "mangled" it. Engineers watched the dials to
be sure that speech was properly distorted. At the transmitter,
channel mixers continually shifted the transmission from one
frequency to another, so that anyone listening on one circuit
would hear it go suddenly blank.

	How then, was it possible for the Germans to pick up 
the scrambled Roosevelt-Churchill conversation, unscramble it,
and prepare its translation for Hitler?

[A German engineer named Vetterlein inherited the job. With
no models, schematics, etc., he managed to reconstruct the
device in about 9 months.]

	The whole project was completed by March 1, 1942. A
monitoring station with giant directional antennae was erected
at a secluded spot near Eyndhoven on the coast of occupied
Holland. Its equipment was so efficient that the intercepted
conversations could be "deciphered" instantaneously, losing 
only a few syllables after each key change (which occurred at
intervals of twenty seconds) until the proper key was found
automatically. The German transcripts were send to Berlin on
a G-Schreiber, a classified teletype that had its own scrambler
system. The entire operation, from the interception to the
arrival of its transcript in Berlin, usually required only a
couple of hours. It was probably the fastest means of intelligence
procurement in secret service history.

[...]

	With abiding faith in the inviolability of the scrambler
system, the Prime Minister called Mr. Roosevelt, his other friends
and associates in Washington and New York, at all hours of the 
day or night, from his bomb-proof shelter under Whitehall, where
his transatlantic telephone was installed. 

[Churchill called Roosevelt on July 29, 1942, to discuss the
situation in Italy, where Mussolini had just been replaced by
Marshal Badoglio. The Germans wondered what affect Mussolini's
ouster would have on the Axis. Would Italy remain in the war
with Germany and against the Allies, or seek peace? During the 
conversation, it became obvious that Italy was seeking to make
a separate peace with the Allies. Upon hearing this information,
Hitler ordered 20 army divisions into Italy, to stop the Allied
advance.]

	In his postmortem, Churchill viewed this move into Italy
as the crowning error of Hitler's strategy and war direction. 
"There was no need," he wrote, "to consume his strength in Italy
and the Balkans, and the fact that he was induced to do so must be
taken as the waste of his last opportunity."

	It may be true that the occupation of Italy was the wrong
disposition to make, and that it enabled the Allies a year later
to launch their main direct assault in Normandy. But in Italy the
war went on with unrelenting fury and horror, as the Allied troops
were forced to hack their way up the peninsula, fighting for every
square inch as they went.

	When it came at last on April 15, 1945, the end was almost
two years overdue.

	If there is a moral in this story, it may be put in a 
paraphrase of the Bell System's famous slogan: When it comes to
state secrets, write, don't telephone.

****

Good listening,

Jim
