Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!ira.uka.de!rz.uni-karlsruhe.de!stepsun.uni-kl.de!uklirb!posthorn!vier!neuhaus
From: neuhaus@vier.informatik.uni-kl.de (Stephan Neuhaus (HiWi Mattern))
Subject: Statistical properties of white noise?
Message-ID: <neuhaus.728914688@vier>
Keywords: cryptanalysis,white noise,fourier transform,random numbers
Sender: news@posthorn.informatik.uni-kl.de (News system account)
Nntp-Posting-Host: vier.informatik.uni-kl.de
Reply-To: neuhaus@informatik.uni-kl.de
Organization: University of Kaiserslautern, Germany
Date: Fri, 5 Feb 1993 12:18:08 GMT
Lines: 42

Hi.

First of all: You can expect my results of testing PGP's IDEA session
keys to appear in this forum during the next week.

Now, my question:  I am currently looking at yet another way to
analyze PGP's IDEA session keys.  While rereading a section about
Fourier transforms in some Numerical Analysis book, it occurred to me
that such an analysis could be used to detect periodicity (sp?) in the
sequence of keys.  You simply take a long stretch of keys and apply a
Fourier transformation.  If the distribution of the Fourier
coefficients is not good enough, someone might exploit this.

Ideally, good session keys should behave like white noise.  The D.C.
component (a0 in the Fourier transform formula) should be N/2 if the
keys range from 0 to N-1.  The other frequencies should all have the
same amplitude.  Now what I want to know is:

1) What amplitudes do the frequencies have in a Fourier analysis of
truly white noise?  I.e., what is the probability distribution of the
Fourier coefficients in the case that I'm taking x samples of truly
white noise at sampling rate y?

2) If I am not mistaken, the probability distribution of the Fourier
coefficients should be invariant under time scaling or shifting.  Is
this correct?  (By time scaling I mean changing the sampling frequency
by some factor, and by time shifting I mean starting the sampling
process somewhat later or earlier.)

3) Should I try a sine-only or cosine-only Fourier transform or should
I compute the ``mixed'' form, which has sines as well as cosines?

4) Is this a good test?  I.e., if one frequency does not occur at all
or with a significantly higher amplitude, can this be exploited
cryptanalytically?

Have fun.

-- 
Stephan <neuhaus@informatik.uni-kl.de>
sig closed for inventory.  Please leave your pickaxe outside.
PGP 2.1 public key available on request.  Note the expiration date.
