Path: msuinfo!caen!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!usc!howland.reston.ans.net!bogus.sura.net!udel!gvls1!tredysvr!cellar!tsa
From: tsa@cellar.org (The Silent Assassin)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: What are the weaknesses
Message-ID: <RwFoyB6w164w@cellar.org>
Date: 8 Feb 93 23:46:50 GMT
Sender: bbs@cellar.org (The Cellar BBS)
Organization: The Cellar BBS and public access system
Lines: 33

of a key expansion exncryption system?  A system that takes a key, makes it
grow to the size of the message, by duplicating it with slight changes and
adding it to the end until it is the size of the message.  Then randomize
the key by starting at the first byte, XORing it with a byte, and the byte
which you XOR it with depends on the value of the first byte.  Then go to
the byte you just XORed the first byte with.  take it, and XOR it with
another byte (where it is depends on the value of the byte).  Basicalyl, you
jump from byte to byte, XORing each byte with another, chosen by the value
of the original.  This can be done 1000 times a second on an IBM 286, so
could be done many more times on a real machine.  This makes the expanded
key practically random.   The method is chaotic, in that the key "I am
having a good day" produces a totally different key from "i am having a good
day".  Then you XOR the expanded key with the plaintext to produce the
cipher text.  Decryption is simple, you perform the same key expansion and
key randomization, and XOR it with the cipher text, producing the plaintext.
Basically, this is similar to a one time pad, except that the pad is not one
time, it is produced.  Therefore, the question is the randomness of the key.
If the byte XORing operation is performed enough times, the key should be
pretty random.  What are the weakness of such an encryption system?  A
friend of mine came up with it, and thought that it was unbreakable.  (He
doesn't do much cryptography).  I figured I'd ask the experts here, its
probably been thought of before.
	Trying all keys is not feasible, if you use 40 characters of random
data as a key (not too bad), you end up with 2 * 10^96 possible keys,
significantly more than DES.  All keys would not be equally good, since each
byte points to another in effect, you could end up with strange stuff.  But
with enough repetitions, any key would eventually become random.  It is
fast.

I finally discovered, at the age of 21, what all of my friends had found out
at 12 or 13-that your parents are just as fucked-up and wierd as everyone
else.  Politically Correct:  Socially, Politcally, and Environmentally
concious to the point of nausea.  tsa%cellar@tredysvr.tredydev.unisys.com
