Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!cs.widener.edu!eff!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!uwm.edu!rpi!batcomputer!cornell!uw-beaver!cs.ubc.ca!fs1.ee.ubc.ca!jrusmise
From: jrusmise@ee.ubc.ca (RUSMISEL JASON DIRK)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Questions about RSA.
Message-ID: <1993Feb10.183246.29386@ee.ubc.ca>
Date: 10 Feb 93 18:32:46 GMT
Distribution: sci.crypt, alt.security
Organization: University of BC, Electrical Engineering
Lines: 34

Hi,

        I've been doing some research for my senior project on data
encryption, specifically RSA encryption.  My source for the information on
the RSA study is from "A Method for Obtaining Digital Signatures and Public Key
Cryptosystems" by Rivest, Shamir and Adleman, 1978 in 'Communications of the
ACM'.  I don't find the article difficult to understand, but my inexperience in
the field makes it difficult for me to see the implications of some of the
concepts in the article.  I have two specific questions that I would appreciate
some discussion/answers to:

        1) The article suggests that the length of 'n', (where n is the product
        of two large primes p and q, and n is the modulus used with the
        encryption and decrytion keys to decode and encode) be 200 digits. [page
        125, top right]  200 digits base 10 is about 664 binary digits.  Now, to
        the question.  The program PGP provides various levels of key length,
        384 bits, 512 bits and 1024 bits.   How were these numbers decided on? I
        realize that the state of computer technology at the time the RSA
        article was written was very different than it is now, but have there
        been significant advances in crypto breaking since 1978 that would
        make factoring such large numbers much easier? (Perhaps the Connection
        Machine.....)  Really I'm interested in a discussion of the design
        decisions/tradeoffs here.

        2) In fact, I just managed to answer my second question.  So only one
        question.


Thanks,



Jason Rusmisel
UBC Electrical Engineering
