Newsgroups: news.admin.policy,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy,sci.space,sci.astro,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!wupost!howland.reston.ans.net!bogus.sura.net!darwin.sura.net!newsserver.jvnc.net!yale.edu!ira.uka.de!math.fu-berlin.de!mailgzrz.TU-Berlin.DE!news.netmbx.de!Germany.EU.net!mcsun!fuug!anon
From: an8785@anon.penet.fi (8 February 1993)
Subject: *advocate* anonymous postings
Message-ID: <1993Feb16.191517.12896@fuug.fi>
Sender: anon@fuug.fi (The Anon Administrator)
Organization: Anonymous contact service
X-Anonymously-To: news.admin.policy,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy,sci.space,sci.astro,sci.crypt
Date: Tue, 16 Feb 1993 17:34:30 GMT
Lines: 64
Xref: msuinfo news.admin.policy:1669 comp.org.eff.talk:14733 alt.privacy:5964 sci.space:56021 sci.astro:31577 sci.crypt:13647


Now that we've seen that pseudonymous postings are not an
unmitigated evil by demonstrating their accountability and
responsibility, we need to go further and to *promote*
pseudonymous postings as a positive good.

The reason that they are to be encouraged is that the
pseudonymous article distance the ego of the poster
from the content of the message. That is, defense of
the posting is divorced from defense of the self and
conversely, advocacy of a position is separated from
simple self-promotion.

Look in a text of fallacies.  A good number are fallacies of
ad hominem (personal attacks).  These kinds of attacks
would be blunted in  blind and double-blind arguments
because (1) by not directly identifying the originator
of a post, less of his or her personal feelings are
"on the line" and (2) by revealing less personal and
irrelevant information the opponent has less of a toehold
by which she or he might launch personal attacks.

This does not mean arguments would become less passionate,
but the passion is redirected from a defense of a self-image
to the defense of a *position.*

Thus the exhortation by *emotional pressure* or by
"pinpointing an enemy", which is by far and away the
the key ingredients of propaganda, is short-circuited.
The fog of personal special pleading and posturing
is blown away, leaving the stark contours of argument.

Moreover, appeals based mainly on submission to badges
of authority, such as the posting site or the reputation
or power of the poster is muted.  This removes another
constraint to Usenet readers using evidence of their own
sense coupled with conclusions derived from independent
thought with facts that can be gleaned from good postings.

True, a lot of sludge will be channeled by Anonymous.  But
of far more importance will the occasional Copernican theory
(still censored in some areas until the early 19th C.) be able
to surface without intimidation or retribution.

Anonymous postings demand a lot from the readership in
requiring skill to prune and select from a broader array of
responses; responses that may be incorrect, in poor taste or
just plain dumb.  This burden of selection and analysis will 
certainly increase as anonymous postings become the norm.

For those who are unable or afraid to boldly take this step into
the future of a free society, you can still use the N key or the
kill file to prepackage your Usenet information stream.

But for the rest of us, this difficult and frustrating process of
learning effective strategies of analysis and resolution is identical
with education in our free society, a society that is slowly
transcending national boundaries at the speed of light.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To find out more about the anon service, send mail to help@anon.penet.fi.
Due to the double-blind system, any replies to this message will be anonymized,
and an anonymous id will be allocated automatically. You have been warned.
Please report any problems, inappropriate use etc. to admin@anon.penet.fi.
*IMPORTANT server security update*, mail to update@anon.penet.fi for details.
