Newsgroups: sci.crypt
From: oml@eloka.demon.co.uk (Owen Lewis)
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!wupost!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!cs.utexas.edu!tamsun.tamu.edu!news.utdallas.edu!corpgate!bnrgate!bnr.co.uk!pipex!demon!eloka.demon.co.uk!oml
Subject: Re: `Sunday Times' article on GSM changes 
Distribution: world
References: <WCS.93Feb19140723@rainier.ATT.COM>
Organization: Eloka Consultancy & Project Management
Reply-To: oml@eloka.demon.co.uk
X-Mailer: Simple NEWS 1.90 (ka9q DIS 1.19)
Lines: 60
Date: Sun, 21 Feb 1993 18:26:48 +0000
Message-ID: <730319208snz@eloka.demon.co.uk>
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk

In article <WCS.93Feb19140723@rainier.ATT.COM> wcs@anchor.ho.att.com writes:

>- An article in Wired referred to work done by cellular-phone hackers on
>tracking the locations of cellular phones by listening to the paging
>traffic used by the cellular system to locate subscribers, set up calls,
>hand off between cells, etc., and commented that some of this can be
>done even when the phone is NOT making a phone call.

This facility is available on commercially produced surveillance equipment
- as is the ability to monitor and track multiple targets even if the 
monitoring equipment is sited hundreds of miles from the target. As the 
details of any number calling to or called by a target are also recorded, 
and may, therefore, themselves become targets in their own right, any 
comprehensive surveillance could grow exponentially.

The difficulties in telephone monitoring - including cellphone - are not the 
acquisition of data but the accurate elimination of what is truly 
inconsequential and the development of comprehensive and meaningful patterns 
from the mass of data collected.

>If I remember correctly, while wiretapping phone conversations without
>a warrant is illegal, using a "pen register" or equivalent modern technology
>to record the phone numbers a suspect calls does *not* require a warrant.
>Is the equivalent activity for cellular phones legal?

Circumstances may vary from country to country. My understanding is that, in 
the UK, a record for each subscriber is maintained of all numbers called (incl 
redials and misdials) for a two year period, This information is collected by 
the supplier primarily for system management purposes, including traffic 
analysis. This information would be available to the police without a warrent
to tap. 
  
>Has GSM or any of the other cellular standards addressed the problem?

It is my understanding that the encryption of information on the GSM system 
includes encryption of the signals engineering data. Therefore, commercial 
surveillance will require to break the cipher if surveillance from 
outside of the same cell as the target is to be effected. Naturally, lawful 
surveillance under the authority of a warrant will not be so constrained.    

>- If you've got a warrant to wiretap some Real Criminal's phones, is it
>reasonable to want a warrant that lets you tap ANY phone they use?

In the UK and, I believe, in the US this is exactly what happens. The subject
of a warrant is a person, a group or organisation. The warrant does not apply 
to any particular line number. Thus, in the case of an individual, 'taps' on 
office, home, car and week-end cottage would be the order of the day. In a 
hypothetical case, where a major corporation or a trade union were to be the 
subject of a warrant allowing their communications to be 'tapped', this could
result in a very large and complex surveillance operation indeed. I should 
stress that warrants for the purpose of telephone tapping are not lightly 
given.  

-- 

                               -= Owen Lewis =-
                                      @
      Tele/fax  +44-(0)794-301731   ELOKA   Consultancy & Project Management
                            oml@eloka.demon.co.uk
                        pgp 2.x public key on request
