Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!pipex!bnr.co.uk!uknet!acorn!eoe!ahaley
From: ahaley@eoe.co.uk (Andrew Haley)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: FAQ for sci.crypt??
Message-ID: <1556@eouk5.eoe.co.uk>
Date: 22 Feb 93 11:54:22 GMT
References: <86878@ut-emx.uucp>
Organization: EO Europe Limited, Cambridge, UK
Lines: 43
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL6]

joe ercole (onthanet@cc.ccwf.utexas.edu) wrote:
: 
:         I'm very curious about the data encryption standard that Norton's
: uses.  I suppose DES is standardized, so this question will apply to any
: and all software that uses it.  

OK.  I don't know about Norton's implementation; my comments are based
on the assumption that they have done it correctly.

: How secure are files protected with it?  

Very.  DES requires between 2**47 and 2**56 operations to break (the
latter figure is somewhat theoretical, as it requires the cooperation
of the entity being attacked.)  In practice, either figure is
sufficiently large to prevent attack.

: Is there any way to recover files whose password has been lost?  

No.  Not for people with normal computer resources.  This assumes that
you've used a sensible password.  It also assumes that Norton have
used a good hashing algorithm to generate a DES key from your
password; if they've just used eight characters of your password as
the DES key, the system is very insecure.

: Can it be done but only with the supercomputers at Langley?  

Probably.  Current semiconductor design allows a DES-cracking machine
to be built for a few million dollars which would be able to
exhaustively search for a DES key, give a sample plaintext and
ciphertext, in a few hours.  This possibility can be avoided by
multiply encrypting (at least three times) using different keys.  

The supercomputers aren't at Langley, they're at Fort Meade.  The NSA
is responsible for signals intelligence, so they've got the computers.

: Any and all info appreciated, esp.  references to good books or files
: on the net or off that can further elucidate.

The best general book to read is Gustavus Simmon's recent book (called
"Cryptology") published by the IEEE press.  It's very detailed on the
theory, but also gives a good overview.

Andrew.
