Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!wupost!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!swrinde!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!hotmomma!acc1bbs!dick.zeitlin
From: dick.zeitlin%acc1bbs@ssr.com (Dick Zeitlin) 
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: *advocate* anonymous
Message-ID: <2604.204.uupcb@ssr.com>
Date: 21 Feb 93 08:13:00 GMT
Distribution: world
Organization: Advanced Computer Concepts BBS, New Rochelle, NY 914-654-1981
Reply-To: dick.zeitlin%acc1bbs@ssr.com (Dick Zeitlin) 
Lines: 40

LJM> .and if you can come up with a legitimate purpose for anonymous
   > .postings, please, enlighten me.)

Are you making a distinction between "anonymous" postings, which are
clearly identified as such, and the use of pseudonyms?  I know people
that use pseudonyms for a variety of reasons, mostly valid, IMO.

Consider that anyone other than a medical professional can perform first
aid without fear of a malpractice suit, but in many jurisdictions, first
aid performed by a medical professional IS vulnerable to such actions.
Would you expect a Billary Clinton post on economics to be considered in
the same light as a Steve Clinton post on economics?  (Yes, I know...
Steve's is probably more appropriate than Billary's!  <~> )  Often it
makes sense for a famous person or a professional to disassociate
themselves from their professional personna for informal discussions.

LJM> .I suppose you're also opposed to the concept of Caller ID, [...]

Yes.  My wife is a teacher.  She often calls parents in the evening.
When our phone number was published, we'd get calls at the weirdest
hours with questions about Johnny's homework, etc.  Our phone is
unlisted so that we can have some privacy.  When Caller-ID comes to the
area, she'll no longer call parents in the evening, unless the ID can be
defeated.  There are many other similar instances where I want my
privacy protected from abuse.

LJM> .If you really want to see how reliable anonymous (or even "friend of a fr
   > .stories) are, take a look at the Enquirer, Weekly World News, or any of t
   > .other tabloids that quote "reliable sources" or "unnamed informants" when
   > .presenting their far-fetched and destructive stories.

And then look at the number of VALID exposures of government corruption
and anonymous leaks of reports and documents that have resulted in
public disclosure without endangering the source.  It swings both ways.
Like most things in life...

        D/
---
 . QMPro 1.0 41-3345 . Bring back A-N airways!!    Dick.Zeitlin%acc1bbs@ssr.com
               
