Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!network.ucsd.edu!munnari.oz.au!mel.dit.csiro.au!its.csiro.au!dmssyd.syd.dms.CSIRO.AU!metro!extro.ucc.su.OZ.AU!simonl
From: simonl@extro.ucc.su.OZ.AU (Simon Laing)
Subject: Re: `Sunday Times' article on GSM changes 
Message-ID: <simonl.730413249@extro.ucc.su.OZ.AU>
Sender: news@ucc.su.OZ.AU
Nntp-Posting-Host: extro.ucc.su.oz.au
Organization: Sydney University Computing Service, Sydney, NSW, Australia
References: <WCS.93Feb19140723@rainier.ATT.COM> <730319208snz@eloka.demon.co.uk>
Date: Mon, 22 Feb 1993 20:34:09 GMT
Lines: 36


On the issue of tracking mobile subscribers, GSM endeavours to obscure the
information on a subscribers identity that is sent over the air. The very
first time you log on to a GSM network, you have to send your IMSI
(International Mobile Subscriber Identity) to the MSC (Mobile Services
Switching Centre). Every subscriber has a unique IMSI, which is held on the 
SIM (Subscriber Identity Module), which is the smart card containing the
subscriber's service details and seed keys for authentication and generating
the cipher key. As soon as you are registered with the MSC, it assigns you
a TMSI (Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity) and sends this to you along
with its own LAI (Location Area Identifier). The TMSI/LAI combination are
stored in the SIM, and the IMSI/TMSI relationship is recorded in the MSC.
From then on, whenever you log on you do _not_ send your IMSI over the air but
instead your TMSI/LAI. If you are logging on the the same MSC, it can
immediately look up your IMSI, which it uses for controlling signalling
throughout the rest of the network. On the other hand, if you are logging on
to another MSC, it recognises that your LAI is not its own, so it requests
the last MSC (which is identified by the LAI) to send it your IMSI. When
it receives this, it allocates you a new TMSI, and sends its own TMSI/LAI
combination to you for storage on your SIM.

It sounds rather complex, but it works, and it does avoid having to
transmit the IMSI over the air in the clear except in exceptional
circumstances (such as on first use, or when your last-used MSC goes down).

It should be noted that ciphering can only begin after the identity of the
subscriber has been established. Hence, the IMSI or TMSI/LAI cannot be
ciphered.

Clearly, if _all_ control messages ever emitted by one subscriber can be
traced, then the TMSI/LAI mechanisam does not achieve its purpose. However,
the probability of that happening in a mobile network must be pretty slim.


Simon Laing
&
