Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!qt.cs.utexas.edu!yale.edu!ira.uka.de!math.fu-berlin.de!news.netmbx.de!Germany.EU.net!mcsun!chsun!bernina!neptune!gcaronni
From: gcaronni@iiic.ethz.ch (Germano Caronni)
Subject: Re: The Evil Empire and more again on spoofing
Message-ID: <1993Feb23.144744.23507@neptune.inf.ethz.ch>
Sender: news@neptune.inf.ethz.ch (Mr News)
Nntp-Posting-Host: a12
Organization: Dept. Informatik, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH), Zurich, CH
References: <2273@vrta.win.net> <C2vAxH.2JA@news.Hawaii.Edu>
Date: Tue, 23 Feb 1993 14:47:44 GMT
Lines: 38

In article <C2vAxH.2JA@news.Hawaii.Edu> bob@soest.hawaii.edu writes:
>>It is impossible to authenticate the person on the other end of the
>>connection unless the two of you share a secret....
>
>Not necessarily so.  Authentication could be through a mutually-trusted
>3rd party.  Or, if you had multiple paths that you somehow knew did lead
>to the person on the other end, not all of which are corruptible.

After the excours(sp?) in anti-spoofing, that was here some weeks ago,
it's interesting to see this kind of problem arise again.

My question now: if you have a chain of people which link Anne to Zebadiah,
let's say Anne trust Bob, Bob trusts Casimir, ... , Yasmin trusts Zeb.
(And vice-versa) (You also can replace 'trust' with 'physically knows')

This does not mean that Anne has to trust Casimir. Is there any way for
Anne to get trusted information about Zeb, if Casimir is indeed a fraud,
and Bob did a mistake in trusting Casimir ???

And, could anybody imagine a mechanism as creating dozenes of these chains,
in real world, that link user A to user Z ? If we could create such a 
mechanism say, through usage of Internet, I guess that would be an
interesting fact. At the same time, the information of 'who knows who'
has not to be publicly available, as this may well be a private matter...

(I say 'dozens of chains' to augment the chance, that one of these chains,
wich sometimes would need to be hundreds of peoples long, is actually
a good chain, without a fraud in the middle.)

We also found out, how one could hinder an 'Evil Empire' to do successfull
spoofing, if the Evil Empire relies on computers only to do this spoofing.
Would it be possible to outwit an Evil Empire (i like this name :-) )
that uses human forces to do the spofing, when the 'Brave (Wo)Men' would
use such chains or even a net of authentification ?

Discussion highly welcome,

	Germano Caronni
