Newsgroups: sci.crypt
From: oml@eloka.demon.co.uk (Owen Lewis)
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!pipex!gate.demon.co.uk!demon!eloka.demon.co.uk!oml
Subject: Re: `Sunday Times' article on GSM changes 
Distribution: world
References: <3SOCCAj024n@sktb.demon.co.uk>
Organization: Eloka Consultancy & Project Management
Reply-To: oml@eloka.demon.co.uk
X-Mailer: Simple NEWS 1.90 (ka9q DIS 1.19)
Lines: 87
Date: Wed, 24 Feb 1993 15:06:23 +0000
Message-ID: <730566383snz@eloka.demon.co.uk>
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk

In article <3SOCCAj024n@sktb.demon.co.uk> pla@sktb.demon.co.uk writes:

>Well, you raised some interesting points, so at the risk of incurring
>everyone's wrath I'll take you up on that and post.

With apologies to the many to whom they are 'old hat' there are three points I 
think worth re-stating as, IMV, they are central to the developing 
discussions on the non-governmental usage of cryptography. They are also 
fundamental to the development of cryptographic systems for specific markets.

1. It is, and has been for some years, feasible to encrypt digitized speech
and to pass the resulting signals successfully within the bandwidth 
restrictions of a PSTN. These are available commercially. 

2. Other than playing semantic games, I believe that it is possible to make
a proper distinction between the needs of privacy and security, though the 
borderline between the two is not clear cut. I offer a simple analogy:

		a. A small, cheap and relatively flimsy lock is used on a
lavatory door. This is sufficient to save an occupant possible embarrassment,
irritation and inconvenience, arising from an accidental intrusion or an 
intrusion sparked by curiosity. Privacy is protected. Those who conduct 
activities in the lavatory, whose compromise could wreck their domestic 
circumstances, careers or financial strength are well advised not to 
compromise their security in such a place.

		b. A bank with 100M in gold on the premises will secure it
against deliberate and skilful attack, planned possibly over years, by 
professionals robbers. These precautions will be expensive, elaborate, 
overlapping like chain mail and create several perimeters, each of which
must be breached successively to steal the gold. The robbers will see their 
considerable investment in the means to defeat the banks security as the cost 
of obtaining the gold. Their profit is the difference between outlay and 
return. Whether or not a profit is sufficient to offer an attractive yield can 
be determined from:

		   	         
                         y =       (R-O) >= pc
                                   -----
                                     f

where:
		f = a satisfactory multiplier
		R = reward for villainy (100M in the analogy)
		O = outlay
		p = probability of failure
		c = cost of failure


In such circumstances, considerations of privacy are co-incidental - though 
considerable privacy might be afforded by the banks security arrangements.

3. People, individually and corporately, are right to have some expectation
of privacy for their dealings. They also have a right - and a much more 
important one - to protect their security. The most fundamental security issues
require very expensive forms of protection and that is why we procure this 
protection communally, through our elected assemblies, in the form of armed 
forces, police forces etc. For the area of risk that begins where personal 
privacy fades and ends where true communal security dawns, individuals and 
corporations must make their own arrangements. 

For the majority of individuals (and many businesses), the costs and 
inconveniences of true information security are too high to be comensurate 
with the risks to which they are, in reality, exposed. To achieve much, the 
protection must be comprehensive, with protective measures that overlap and 
which are designed with a comprehensive knowledge of the means of attack. As 
extensive coverage in the UK newspapers has recently demonstrated 
(re.Camillagate), such knowledge is not to be gleaned form the reports of 
investigative journalists. Real information security amounts to much more 
than the procurement of a good crypto system, fundamental though that is. It 
is an indispensable requirement for those who possess sufficient to be worth 
'stealing'in the face of expense and risk.    

The nut of the present and coming arguments is the level - or, indeed,
whether at all - individuals and private corporations shall be permitted to 
operate the means of real information security. If there is such general
licence, some erosion of communal security will follow and, above all else,
it is to maintain communal security that we put governments in place. Limited
licence already exists in some democratic societies.

-- 

                               -= Owen Lewis =-
                                      @
      Tele/fax  +44-(0)794-301731   ELOKA   Consultancy & Project Management
                            oml@eloka.demon.co.uk
                        pgp 2.x public key on request
