Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy,alt.society.civil-liberty
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!rpi!gatech!howland.reston.ans.net!paladin.american.edu!news.univie.ac.at!hp4at!mcsun!news.funet.fi!funic!nntp.hut.fi!usenet
From: jkp@cs.HUT.FI (Jyrki Kuoppala)
Subject: Re: Wiretapping requirements. 
In-Reply-To: oml@eloka.demon.co.uk (Owen Lewis)
Message-ID: <1993Feb25.121209.2610@nntp.hut.fi>
Followup-To: alt.privacy,alt.society.civil-liberty
Sender: usenet@nntp.hut.fi (Usenet pseudouser id)
Nntp-Posting-Host: lusmu.cs.hut.fi
Reply-To: jkp@cs.HUT.FI (Jyrki Kuoppala)
Organization: Helsinki University of Technology, Finland
References: <WCS.93Feb22193849@rainier.ATT.COM> <730479665snz@eloka.demon.co.uk>
Date: Thu, 25 Feb 1993 12:12:09 GMT
Lines: 65
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:13843 alt.privacy:6031 alt.society.civil-liberty:8437

In article <730479665snz@eloka.demon.co.uk>, oml@eloka (Owen Lewis) writes:
>In specific regard to your observation, I believe that national (and local?) 
>requirements vary enormously. In some places it is necessary to inform the 
>target that he is being tapped; in others the target must be informed that a
>tapping operation has been carried out; yet, in others, there is no requirement
>to advise the target of anything at all. Finally, there are places where
>for 'warrants' one might read 'carte blanche'.

You forgot to add that in others, wiretapping is always illegal.  In
Finland it currently is, and even traffic analysis information is
legal to get by court warrant only since October 1992.

It remains to be seen how long we have such privacy, though.  There's
again a proposal of making wiretapping legal - the police want to be
able to wiretap secretly and so that the court permit can be gotten
after the fact in "urgent" cases.  There's no real reason for such a
change wiretap, but I think that there's some pressure from other
European countries for such.

That wiretapping is illegal of course doesn't mean it isn't being
done, but it does put some limit to it.  As an anecdote, a former head
of the justice department said on national TV that there are strong
indications that the police have illegally listened to telephone
conversations.

Followups directed out of sci.crypt, since this doesn't have much to
do with sci.crypt.

ObCrypt:

quote from:

        Transcript of an article in New Scientist, 30 Jan 1993

Spymasters fear bug-proof cellphones
(Barry Fox, Bahrain)

via comp.risks, RISKS DIGEST 14.33:

"At MECOM 93, a conference on developing Arab communications held in Bahrain
last week, many Gulf and Middle Eastern countries sought tenders for GSM
systems, but the companies selling them could not agree terms without the
go-ahead of the DTI. Qatar and the United Arab Emirates want to be first with
GSM in the Gulf, with Bahrain next. GSM manufacturers are worried that the
business will be lost to rival digital systems already on offer from the US
and Japan.

The Finnish electronics company Nokia, which is tendering for Bahrain's GSM
contract, says "There is no logic. We don't know what is happening or why." A
DTI spokeswoman would only say that exports outside Europe would need a
licence and each case would be treated on its own merits."

My comments:

DTI is the British department of trade.  This has some interesting
politics - Finland is not part of EC (which has been reported to order
weakening of GSM crypt) and I presume not subject to British
regulations.  I guess the issue is that the GSM crypt technology is
licensed from British Telecom and thus under power of the British
government company, and the power to restrict comes from that way.
Alternatively, COCOM might be used - while Finland is not a member of
COCOM either, it has to conform to it anyway because otherwise it
would be blacklisted.

//Jyrki
