Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!usc!cs.utexas.edu!convex!news.oc.com!utacfd.uta.edu!rwsys!sneaky!gordon
From: gordon@sneaky.lonestar.org (Gordon Burditt)
Subject: Re: US Treasury to use digital signatures
Message-ID: <C32wwD.Knu@sneaky.lonestar.org>
Organization: Gordon Burditt
References: <C2vG8o.5Mv@panix.com>
Date: Fri, 26 Feb 1993 23:21:38 GMT
Lines: 36

>An article in the February 22 issue of Network World (p. 6) says
>that the US Treasury will start requiring many participants to 
>use electronic signatures in processing tax payments.  Not
>digitized signatures, apparently, but public-key signatures, the kind
>that make it impossible for one to deny having signed something.
>According the story, eventually even individual taxpayers will have to 
>use them.

What problem does this solve?  Is there a rampant problem of
people paying other people's taxes?  Why would "tax and spend"
Clinton consider this a problem?  Is there a problem with people
filing fraudulent returns and then claiming "that's not my 
signature" and actually getting away with it?

I wonder how they intend to put enough compute power into the hands
of individual taxpayers to make this practical.  As a practice
exercise, consider writing Form 1040-like instructions for manually
doing one DES encryption, or one RSA encryption with a 40-digit
key.  They get to use pencil, paper, forms and instructions you prepare, 
and a calculator that does add, subtract, multiply, and divide and 
displays 12 digits maximum.  Then ask a non-compunerd relative or 
high-school student to complete the forms.  How long does it take?  
Do they get it right when they decide they're finished?


>The Postal Service would be given the task of issuing the public-key 
>certificates required for such a system.

Instant deniability.  (I just handed my neighbor some mail delivered
to my house by mistake.)  Key?  What key?  I never got any key.
And the people who send in tax returns without signing them, hoping
to reduce penalties if they get caught on the lies on the form will
be the same ones who "accidentally" mistype the key.

					Gordon L. Burditt
					sneaky.lonestar.org!gordon
