Newsgroups: sci.crypt
From: pla@sktb.demon.co.uk ("Paul L. Allen")
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!pipex!demon!sktb.demon.co.uk!pla
Subject: Re: `Sunday Times' article on GSM changes 
References: <3SOCCAj024n@sktb.demon.co.uk> <730566383snz@eloka.demon.co.uk>
Reply-To: pla@sktb.demon.co.uk
Organization: Chaos
Distribution: world
Lines: 188
X-Newsreader: Archimedes ReadNews
Date: Sat, 27 Feb 1993 00:20:39 +0000
Message-ID: <3TeXo-j024n@sktb.demon.co.uk>
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk

Hmmm, this thread is moving towards the realms of eng.crypt, soc.crypt and
politcics.crypt, but since science exists in the real world (one where
there's no point coming up with a brilliant encryption algorithm if you're
not allowed to use it, and where the aforementioned groups don't exist,) I'll
have to hope people are still interested...

In article <730566383snz@eloka.demon.co.uk> oml@eloka.demon.co.uk (Owen
Lewis) writes:

> 1. It is, and has been for some years, feasible to encrypt digitized speech
> and to pass the resulting signals successfully within the bandwidth 
> restrictions of a PSTN. These are available commercially.

Well, it has been said that GCHQ will not permit the (commercial) sale or use
of encryption equipment which it cannot easily crack.  I believe there is
some truth to this, otherwise GSM wouldn't be switching to A5X.  So, a few
questions:
  
    What level of encryption do these units provide?  Can GCHQ break it in
    minutes (like A5X) or months (like A5)?

    If the encryption is a lot tougher than A5X, are these units legally
    useable by the general public or are they, like radio bugs, illegal to
    operate?  I'm fairly sure that they would be illegal to operate over
    a radio link (other than by duly sanctioned organisations like the
    military).  They would probably be illegal to connect to the phone
    system as they would never be granted approval (don't laugh - they got
    Al Capone on tax-evasion).

    Are they widely available?  I haven't seen them in the high-street shops
    or advertised in electronic magazines.  If they are sold `under the
    counter' (and hence are relatively rare), then using them might well
    keep your data secure, but at the expense of making your comms stand out
    like a sore thumb.

Of course, I don't know exactly what legal sanctions GCHQ can bring to bear
upon offending manufacturers.  Certainly for cellphones they can cause the
cellular provider's license to be revoked if it tried to use forbidden
encryption techniques.  I believe radio hams are forbidden to use encryption
by the terms of their license, and I imagine similar provisions will apply
to any other civilian radio operation.  Unless you have telecomm approval
it would be illegal to connect them to a phone line (and obvious that you
had, by the nature of the signal).   There may be other laws specifically
to do with national security, not to mention the good old standby of
conspiracy...

It has just occurred to me that *maybe* you could use a modem.  Time
for some quick hand-waving (I'm an engineer, not a mathematician, so this
is engineering-type hand-waving).  Many years ago I read an article in an
electronics magazine to turn a computer into a speech sampler by simply
tracking zero-crossings of the waveform - the result was said to be of very
low fidelity, but recognizable.  If I recall correctly, the bandwidth of the
old `clockwork' telephone system was about 8 kHz, so sampling at double the
frequency would require a 16 kHz sample rate (OK, should be nearer 2.5 times
in practice, but I'm an engineer and like easy numbers).  So, you might just
squeeze speech down a 14400 bps modem - it would probably sound like a Dalek
gargling, but it might be recognisable.  Maybe you could do a lot better
if you used clever compression techniques, or transformed the data to
something like TI use in their linear predictive coding speech chips...
Anyway, the figures are close enough that I woouldn't like to bet either for
or against the possibility of using a bog-standard modem.  *If* it is
possible to use a modem, then you avoid the problems of connecting non-
approved equipment and of your signal advertising its nature to all and
sundry.

Still, my original posting was about the silliness of downgrading of GSM to
A5X.  If this equipment you mention were widely available, 100% secure
and totally legal then it just makes the GCHQ stance on GSM even less
justifiable.
    
> 2. Other than playing semantic games, I believe that it is possible to make
> a proper distinction between the needs of privacy and security, though the 
> borderline between the two is not clear cut. I offer a simple analogy:

[Long example on your definitions of privacy and security removed]

I'm afraid I still can't agree with (or even follow) your distinctions.  As
far as I can see, privacy is a boolean.  Whether physical privacy or data
privacy, you either have it, or you don't.  When you're dealing with data
transfer, then you may think you have privacy when you don't (because you're
being bugged), but you still either have it or you don't.  Your privacy may
be breached by a friendly party, a neutral party or a hostile party, but it
is still breached.  It may be breached by the police or security services,
legally (with a warrant) or illegally (without a warrant), but it is still
breached.  And of course, the steps you take to ensure your privacy depend on
the importance of whatever it is you're protecting.

> 3. People, individually and corporately, are right to have some expectation
> of privacy for their dealings. They also have a right - and a much more 
> important one - to protect their security. The most fundamental security
> issues require very expensive forms of protection and that is why we
> procure this protection communally, through our elected assemblies, in the
> form of armed   forces, police forces etc. For the area of risk that
> begins where personal privacy fades and ends where true communal security
> dawns, individuals and corporations must make their own arrangements. 

[...]

> The nut of the present and coming arguments is the level - or, indeed,
> whether at all - individuals and private corporations shall be permitted
> to operate the means of real information security. If there is such general
> licence, some erosion of communal security will follow and, above all else,
> it is to maintain communal security that we put governments in place.
> Limited licence already exists in some democratic societies.

This is indeed the nub of my original argument.  The existence of society
depends critically upon giving up individual freedoms for the communal good.
The reason we consent to this is that we are, both as collectively *and* as
individuals, in general, better off than if anarchy reigned.

One of the freedoms we give up is the freedom to absolute privacy - we allow
the police and security services to breach our privacy under certain
conditions, and I have no argument with this.  If the PSTN encryption
equipment you mentioned uses encryption techniques that are as secure
as A5, then the government would be right to object to it - the dangers to
society of end-to-end voice encryption of that kind far outweigh the benefits
to any individual.  If GSM with A5 offered end-to-end encryption, then it too
would be intolerable.  But it doesn't - it offers cell-phone to base-station
scrambling with an unscrambled signal over land-lines available for
monitoring.  Even if there were provision to re-scramble the signal over
land-lines using A5 (or the PSTN equipment you alluded to), there would
still be an unscrambled signal available at the base-station (it would *have*
to work this way, with two separate scrambling/descrambling steps) because
the system would have to cope with both cellphones and PSTN phones which did
not have a scrambler).  The only possible danger comes if A5 chips can be
stripped from cellphones and used to provide end-to-end encryption - I
believe it would be possible to design the protocols the chips use so that
this is not feasible.

You said in mail to me that:

  > I do not believe that attempts to control the monitoring of broadcast
  > communications in a similar way to the 'tapping' of 'landline' telephone
  > systems will be successful and that, if they were, anything particularly
  > worthwhile would have been achieved. 

and

  > I also believe that telecom suppliers of all sorts should provide my
  > traffic with a level of privacy comensurate with the prevention of much
  > elementary eavesdropping or co-incidental compromise.

From these remarks and your other comments, I infer that whilst you object
to private individuals eavesdropping on your calls, you are not excessively
unhappy that the police and security services can do so without a warrant,
because that is one of the freedoms we give up in order to obtain the
benefits of society.  Here I have to disagree - I accept the right of
the police to search my flat if they have a warrant (unpleasant though that
would be), but I do not go up to every police officer I pass in the street
and hand over a spare key with the invitation to `drop in and turn over my
flat whenever you think you have good reason' - it would be all too easy for
a dishonest office to take advantage and rob me.  This is the same reason I
don't want the police and security forces to tap my calls without a warrant -
unscrupulous individuals could blackmail me over legal but immoral activities
(`How much will you pay me not to tell your wife about your mistress?').

There are also dangers to society if we adopt a weak encryption technique -
we leave ourselves vulnerable.  Maybe it's only possible to eavesdrop on
cellphones in another country via satellite - in which case we probably rely
on the US to provide information, and I'm pretty sure they *would* listen in
to us, but would *not* pass on any traffic (ours or theirs) which would be to
their disadvantage.  Maybe it can be done with GCHQ's big dishes (though they
rely on US ones as well), and whilst not many countries have that sort of
setup, a foreign national in the UK with a scanner and recording apparatus
could still do a lot of harm.  In fact, a big danger would be that of
industrial espionage - the bigger computer companies almost certainly have
enough kit in-house to crack A5X in a reasonable time.  And their are some
countries whose over-enthusiastic nationalism could result in them providing
a cracking service to their indigenous companies - two candidates spring
immediately to my mind, with a third not far behind.

All in all, most of the original arguments for A5X seem fallacious, with the
remaining ones being extremely weak, whilst the arguments for A5 seem 
pretty convincing.  Again, I would implore anyone who agrees with me to write
to their elected representative.

--Paul

 +-------------------------+------------------------------------------------+
 |      Paul L. Allen      | The only connection between sktb and any other |
 |   pla@sktb.demon.co.uk  | demon site is that we all subscribe to Demon   |
 |    IP [158.152.9.18]    | Internet Services for dial-up internet access. |
 +-------------------------+ Sktb is my Acorn Archimedes A440/1 on the end  |
 | PGP V2.0 Key available  | of my home telephone.                          |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
 | An over-excited accountant, like the University of Hull, is a            |
 | contradiction in terms.                       --Tom Holt: `Flying Dutch' |
 +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+

