Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!linac!att!att!dptg!ulysses!ulysses!smb
From: smb@research.att.com (Steven Bellovin)
Subject: Re: US Treasury to use digital signatures
Message-ID: <1993Feb27.141936.9585@ulysses.att.com>
Date: Sat, 27 Feb 1993 14:19:36 GMT
References: <C2vG8o.5Mv@panix.com> <C32wwD.Knu@sneaky.lonestar.org>
Organization: AT&T Bell Laboratories
Lines: 51

In article <C32wwD.Knu@sneaky.lonestar.org>, gordon@sneaky.lonestar.org (Gordon Burditt) writes:
> What problem does this solve?

When you file a tax return, you have sign it, certifying under penalty of
perjury that everything is correct to the best of your knowledged.  This
is the electronic analog.

And the IRS is moving (albeit slowly) into the electronic age.  It is
possible to file tax returns electronically.  Currently, I think this
service is used only by big commerical tax return preparers, but it's
hardly beyond the realm of possibility that we'll see PC-based packages
available soon.  (They may even be available already.)

Look -- all of the big firms, and lots of the small ones, already use
computers to produce the forms.  My father is a CPA -- and what he does
for the few individual returns he handles these days is to fill out
a worksheet for some computer.  It, in turn, not only calculates everthing,
it even uses a laser printer to reproduce the standard forms.  That's
an incredible waste -- why not send the data in via modem?

And the certificate is precisely the key, so to speak, to making this a
really general system.  It's the analog to a pen-and-paper signature.

> Instant deniability.  (I just handed my neighbor some mail delivered
> to my house by mistake.)  Key?  What key?  I never got any key.
> And the people who send in tax returns without signing them, hoping
> to reduce penalties if they get caught on the lies on the form will
> be the same ones who "accidentally" mistype the key.

Mistype a key?  No one is going to type in a certificate; you're
talking about hundreds of bytes of hex.  How about this scenario?  You
walk in to your local post office with a floppy disk containing a
public key, and some identification.  The clerk checks your id, and
runs a program that signs your public key, and writes it to a new file
on that disk.  No mail delays, and they've never seen your private
key.  (If you're stupid enough to leave it on that disk, it's hardly
their problem.)

Naturally, once you have the infrastructure in place, you can do other
things.  For example, you can receive an electronic receipt for your
tax return, digitally signed by the IRS.  Or you can pay electronically,
using your certificate to authorize your withdrawal.  (Or, if applicable,
you can direct a refund to your account, for *your* taxes.)

I don't really see why people are complaining about the idea, in absence
of evidence that it will be implemented stupidly or insecurely.  If
we really want a hi-tech society -- including the privacy safeguards
that can and should be provided, such as Chaum's digital cash -- a
certificate infrastructure is vital.  What's the alternative -- using
PGP keys signed by one or more of the Posse Comitatus, the Mafia, the
Medellin Cartel, or Carlos the Jackal?
