Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!wupost!howland.reston.ans.net!bogus.sura.net!darwin.sura.net!haven.umd.edu!news.umbc.edu!umbc7.umbc.edu!olson
From: olson@umbc7.umbc.edu (Mr. Bryan G. Olson; CMSC (G))
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: US Treasury to use digital signatures
Date: 27 Feb 1993 23:29:45 GMT
Organization: University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Lines: 67
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <1moth9INNlik@news.umbc.edu>
References: <C2vG8o.5Mv@panix.com> <C32wwD.Knu@sneaky.lonestar.org>
NNTP-Posting-Host: umbc7.umbc.edu

In article <C32wwD.Knu@sneaky.lonestar.org>, gordon@sneaky.lonestar.org (Gordon Burditt) writes:
|> >An article in the February 22 issue of Network World (p. 6) says
|> >that the US Treasury will start requiring many participants to 
|> >use electronic signatures in processing tax payments.  Not
|> 
|> I wonder how they intend to put enough compute power into the hands
|> of individual taxpayers to make this practical.  As a practice
|> exercise, consider writing Form 1040-like instructions for manually
|> doing one DES encryption, or one RSA encryption with a 40-digit
|> key.  They get to use pencil, paper, forms and instructions you prepare,  

Don't be silly.  They are talking about "tax payments" or, as the IRS
calls them FTDs--Federal Tax Deposits.  Large companies are required to
do FTDs every day.  These companies already do their records on computers
and they WANT the system to be automated as much as possible.  Presently,
when filings of any kind are done electronically, the message is followed
by a paper summary which is signed.  Neither the IRS nor business wants
to deal with the paper.  Digital signatures for individuals will be used
with electronic filing, and again make the process easier for both the
filer and the IRS.

On the other hand, the IRS is not exactly at the state-of-the-art.
I worked for the IRS for about a year, leaving last September.  Like any 
large organization, the IRS has some people who know what they're doing 
and a lot who don't.  Shortly before I left, I attended a meeting on
signature alternatives for electronic filing, and here they were talking
about individual tax returns.  Unfortunately, they were proposing digitized,
not digital, signatures.  They demonstrated their system by having someone
sign a digitizing tablet and then printing a filled-out 1040 form with
that signature on the bottom.

I was aghast.

I pointed out, as politely as I could, that they had just demonstrated
fraudulent use of the signature.

Someone else at the meeting asked if this was an interim step toward true
digital signature, and the group that developed this system said no, they 
didn't see it that way.  When I talked to them after the presentation, it 
turned out that although they claimed to have studied the NIST DSS 
draft, they didn't understand what a digital signature is.  They thought
it was like a PIN number that was simply attached to a document.  I don't
know if the digitized signature project is going forward.


So what does this mean to readers of sci.crypt ?  

First, the major impediment to digital signatures is likely to be public 
understanding, not government resistance.  

Secondly, enough people don't understand cryptology that there should be
work to be had for those who do.  Several intrinsicly insecure systems
were under development at the IRS, despite the fact that they had many
$1000/day contractors studying their plans.  The technical people I worked
with seemed to think that the courts would decide on the legality of a
system based on some unpredictable legal criteria.  I think if we can explain
how and why a system works, the law will accept secure systems and reject
faulty ones.

Sadly, I left the IRS after finding that unless I was a $1000 a day 
contractor or worked there for 20 years, no one would take what I said
seriously.  I am glad to hear that someone there is pushing for real
digital signatures.

Bryan Olson
olson@umbc.edu

