Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!wupost!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!toad.com!wet!wet.COM
From: naga@wet.COM (Peter Davidson)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: The Challenge
Message-ID: <5400@wet.UUCP>
Date: 1 Mar 93 04:01:27 GMT
Sender: naga@wet.UUCP
Distribution: na
Organization: Wetware Diversions, San Francisco
Lines: 36


 
Apologies for not replying to the people who sent me email and
responded on sci.crypt to my last posting regarding the Dolphin Encrypt
software.  My PC went down and it was over a week before I got around
to discovering it was the friggin' monitor, not the computer, that was
at fault.
 
Marc North asked a couple of weeks back why I was interested in the
security of this software.  I keep personal financial and other
information in a Windows spreadsheet on the PC at my place of work and
I have a batch file which firstly decrypts my encrypted spreadsheet
file and runs the spreadsheet program (then I can edit the spreadsheet
file, etc.) then after I leave the spreadsheet the batch file encrypts
the spreadsheet file and then hopefully no-one else can read it.
Dolphin Encrypt also supports a script language, like Paradox, but for
my purposes batch file usage is enough.
 
An email correspondent asked: "Just curious, how fast is this
algorithm and on what platform are you running it?"  According to
the Dolphin Encrypt manual the software has been timed at 9.6 Kb/sec
on a 33 Mhz 386 PC with disk caching.  I run it on a 25 Mhz 386SX and
get slower times.  Disk access speed seems to be the main factor.
Anyway, it's fast enough for me.
 
Since no-one has cracked any of the Dolphin ciphertext I posted,
and no-one has offered to show us how real cryptanalysis might
proceed, I suppose we can conclude that (i) the encryption software is
not obviously insecure and (ii) testing it more rigorously would
involve more effort than the expected return would justify.
 
Marc North has resigned from this cryptanalytic challenge but if anyone
else wants further ciphertext (using the encryption key I used in my
2/14/93 posting) from this software then I'll be happy to provide it.
 

