Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!emory!swrinde!cs.utexas.edu!convex!news.oc.com!utacfd.uta.edu!rwsys!sneaky!gordon
From: gordon@sneaky.lonestar.org (Gordon Burditt)
Subject: Re: US Treasury to use digital signatures
Message-ID: <C35rpp.7Gp@sneaky.lonestar.org>
Organization: Gordon Burditt
References: <C2vG8o.5Mv@panix.com> <C32wwD.Knu@sneaky.lonestar.org> <1993Feb27.141936.9585@ulysses.att.com>
Date: Sun, 28 Feb 1993 12:22:32 GMT
Lines: 133

>> What problem does this solve?
>
>When you file a tax return, you have sign it, certifying under penalty of
>perjury that everything is correct to the best of your knowledged.  This
>is the electronic analog.
>
>And the IRS is moving (albeit slowly) into the electronic age.  It is
>possible to file tax returns electronically.  Currently, I think this
>service is used only by big commerical tax return preparers, but it's
>hardly beyond the realm of possibility that we'll see PC-based packages
>available soon.  (They may even be available already.)

Let's see, this means that nobody is going to be able to file their
own taxes anymore without spending a lot on software and tax preparers.
Many people like taking taxes to tax preparers, but it shouldn't
be impossible to file with only first-class postage, ink, and 
IRS-supplied tax forms.  (Students, in particular, may be really
annoyed that it takes $30 to get back $25 in tax withholding from
a summer job.)

If you're expecting the IRS to *REQUIRE* electronic filing, you're
assuming a heck of a large infrastructure that is not in place.  Just
distributing keys on one floppy disk each to each taxpayer is an
enormous expense.  If you're going to get them computers, too, that's
a LOT more expensive.  Public-access computers at libraries or
post offices can be expected to be virus-ridden and inconvenient to
use because of the overload of demand at tax time.

>And the certificate is precisely the key, so to speak, to making this a
>really general system.  It's the analog to a pen-and-paper signature.
...
>Mistype a key?  No one is going to type in a certificate; you're
>talking about hundreds of bytes of hex.  How about this scenario?  You
>walk in to your local post office with a floppy disk containing a

(1) Many people with day jobs can't just walk into a local post office 
while it's open, and walk out retaining their job.  (2) A few people
can't walk, crawl, or wheel into a local post office at all without
risk of dying (people in intensive care units come to mind).  (3) The 
average taxpayer doesn't have a computer, to say nothing of a computer that
will run the available software. (4) Just where did they get this floppy 
with a key on it to sign?  (5) Who says everyone has identification?
(My mother had some problems with this, as she had no driver's license,
and has never had one.  The state could issue "non-driver's-license id".   
They wouldn't give her one because she had no ID.)  (6) There may be 
significant incentive for a person to get a whole bunch of different keys.
How is this prevented?

>public key, and some identification.  The clerk checks your id, and
>runs a program that signs your public key, and writes it to a new file

Signs your public key with WHAT?  The government's secret key?  
(It can't be very secure if there's a copy in every post office.)
One of thousands of individual post office secret keys?
You forgot to mention that the clerk retains a copy of the public
key and forwards it to the IRS, but this isn't a security problem.

>on that disk.  No mail delays, and they've never seen your private
>key.  (If you're stupid enough to leave it on that disk, it's hardly
>their problem.)

To sign something, you need your secret key, a signature program, 
a computer, and an electronic version of the thing to be signed.  
How do you propose accomplishing this, given that most taxpayers don't 
have a computer?  I'm not inclined to sign something that I can't read, 
and I don't have any way to check that what I'm signing is what I wrote.  
In the current electronic filing system, I sign a piece of paper, retained 
by the preparer/electronic filer, and I can read that paper first to 
see that it's mine, and that the directions of where to deposit the
refund are, in fact, where I want it to go, not where the preparer
wants it to go.  A little mis-handling of disks could result in 
my signature on someone else's tax return disk.  To say nothing of 
the problem that the tax preparer can collect secret keys.

Oh, yes, you have to figure out how to have two people who can't
be brought together in the same place (nor will they send their
secret keys to the same place) sign the same document.  (Example:
serviceman stationed outside the USA and his wife, filing jointly)
In general, neither of them own a computer.

>Naturally, once you have the infrastructure in place, you can do other

You need a large computing infrastructure before you can use the keys
generally.  It's unacceptable for me to hand over my secret key to
a gas station attendant so he can run a program on HIS computer to charge
my bank account for gas, and expect the key to stay secure for tax
purposes.  All operations involving my secret key should be done on
MY computer, unless someone comes up with a LOT of tamper-proof computers
to deploy.  A system reasonably safe for filing tax returns (threat:
signer denies signing it.  Malicious filing of returns for other people
is uncommon.) is not necessarily safe for other uses, like electronic 
funds transfer (threat:  someone else executing unauthorized transactions 
on your behalf) not restricted to just tax refunds.

>things.  For example, you can receive an electronic receipt for your
>tax return, digitally signed by the IRS.  Or you can pay electronically,
>using your certificate to authorize your withdrawal.  (Or, if applicable,
>you can direct a refund to your account, for *your* taxes.)

>I don't really see why people are complaining about the idea, in absence
>of evidence that it will be implemented stupidly or insecurely.  If

I believe it will be DELIBERATELY implemented stupidly, and here's
why:  the key infrastructure can be used to provide, using different
software which might end up being called PGP 9.0, secure communications
between any two people with the needed equipment that the government
can't tap.  This is intolerable to governments.  It's even worse
than tax cheaters.  So they'll break it.

Further, the average taxpayer won't have a secure computer to execute
operations involving his secret key on, so whoever owns the computer
that it IS run on can steal a copy of his secret key.  This makes
it rather unsafe to use the key for another purpose.

>we really want a hi-tech society -- including the privacy safeguards
>that can and should be provided, such as Chaum's digital cash -- a

Governments will never tolerate this, because of tax laws.  The tax
on two transactions isn't the sum of the taxes on the individual
transactions, and it probably never will be, because of the desire
to tax "the rich" at a higher percentage.  And you can't have
anonymous cash transactions, because "the only use for those is
for DRUGS!".

>certificate infrastructure is vital.  What's the alternative -- using
>PGP keys signed by one or more of the Posse Comitatus, the Mafia, the
>Medellin Cartel, or Carlos the Jackal?

I'm sure governments will try to stamp those out, too, if PGP comes
anywhere near close to 20% penetration of the adult US population.

					Gordon L. Burditt
					sneaky.lonestar.org!gordon
