Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!hotmomma!acc1bbs!ernst.smith
From: ernst.smith%acc1bbs@ssr.com (Ernst Smith) 
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Key Revocation Problems
Message-ID: <2741.204.uupcb@ssr.com>
Date: 28 Feb 93 20:59:00 GMT
Distribution: world
Organization: Advanced Computer Concepts BBS, New Rochelle, NY 914-654-1981
Reply-To: ernst.smith%acc1bbs@ssr.com (Ernst Smith) 
Lines: 36


I have read postings regarding the issue of stopping the propagation of 
irrevocable keys.  It has been pointed out that they spread like viruses 
and are very hard to stop. I think I have an idea that might work.
     Part of the problem in stopping keys that cannot be revoked (because 
of a lost private key or legal/moral considerations) is that care must be 
taken to prevent third parties from effectively revoking legitimate keys.  
That is why I disagree with the idea of a kill-list that is passed along 
with public key rings.  Should someone's key accidently end up in the list, 
they will have no alternative except to generate a new one.
     Another problem comes from use of a non-circulating kill-list.  Even 
though one might prevent oneself (by simple programing) from receiving bad 
keys, it does not help the person who actually is distributing them thru 
his/her ring.
     My solution is to establish a ring of bad keys on a server. (Let's 
call it badkey.)  In a separate directory, there should be a group of text 
files, each one a letter describing why someone should remove a particular 
key from his/her ring.  The file names should be related to the key it 
describes.  So, whenever keys are sent to a server, the server can refuse 
any key on its badkey ring *and* e-mail the sender on why he/she should do 
the same.
     These description files could provide "evidence" that the request is 
legitimate. (ie. Signed messages from friends, address, phone #, pleas for 
understanding, etc.)  If there is a mistake, the bad key could be removed 
from the bad key ring.  The best part is that the senders who get the e-
mail message can pass it on to their friends ....By keeping the human 
element, the runaway propagation of bad keys is avoided.
     I would appreciate any thoughtful feedback, esp. from server 
programmers, and a FAQ list on PGP.
                        - Ernst 

N.B.  If this sounds foolish, it's because I have never used PGP or a PGP 
key server in my life.
---
 Ernst Smith, Jr.                               ernst.smith%acc1bbs@ssr.com
                                                
