Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!torn!watserv2.uwaterloo.ca!watserv1!mks.com!richw
From: richw@mks.com (Rich Wales)
Subject: Re: encoded zip codes
Message-ID: <1993Mar5.221416.29540@mks.com>
Keywords: zipcode
Reply-To: richw@mks.com (Rich Wales)
Organization: Mortice Kern Systems Inc., Waterloo, Ontario, CANADA
References: <1993Mar4.152320.10362@mprgate.mpr.ca>
Date: Fri, 5 Mar 1993 22:14:16 GMT
Lines: 55

Nick Bryant asked about bar code representations of Canadian postal
codes.

There appear to be two bar code systems currently in use by Canada Post.
Neither one is in any way related to the US Postal Service's system of
representing each digit via a group of five long and short bars.

The first (older) system uses a series of yellow or orange (fluorescent
ink) bars along the bottom edge of the envelope.  These bars are all the
same size; the coding scheme depends on the presence or absence of bars
at specific positions within the series.

This bar code system is horrendously complicated, but I managed to fig-
ure out about 95% of it a few years ago, and I was able to find someone
at Canada Post's head office in Ottawa who sent me material with the
remaining details.

If you would like a complete description of the "yellow" bar code sys-
tem, send an e-mail message to me (richw@mks.com) with the two words
"send cpost" in the subject line.  I have an automated mail server set
up to scan and presort my incoming mail, and it will respond to any
incoming message that has "send cpost" in the subject line by mailing
a copy of the bar code description back to the sender.  Your message
itself will be discarded, by the way -- so please don't include any
additional comments or questions in your "send cpost" message, because
I'll never see them.

If enough people ask for this info in the next few days, I'll just go
ahead and post it to sci.crypt.

The "yellow" bar code system is =not= suitable for preprinting envelopes
in WordPerfect, etc.  The bars need to be printed using a special fluo-
rescent ink.  Black bars from a laser printer will not work at all.

The second (newer) bar code system is much simpler, and it =is= designed
for preprinting on envelopes.  I don't have the detailed technical specs
handy, but the second system uses three horizontal lines, each contain-
ing exactly four black rectangular bars.  The first and last bars are on
the edges of the pattern and are for alignment; the second and third
bars specify one letter and one digit, respectively.

The "letter" bar can be in one of 20 positions, corresponding to one of
the 20 possible letters in Canadian postal codes (note that D, F, I, O,
Q, and U are not used).  The "digit" bar can be in one of 10 positions,
corresponding to one of the 10 possible digits.

If you can find one of the special mark-sense envelopes that Canada Post
sometimes issues for greeting cards, etc., this will show you exactly
how the "black" bar code works.  The special envelopes have the align-
ment bars already printed, with rectangular boxes for letters and digits
that you shade in as needed with a pencil.

-- 
Rich Wales <richw@mks.com>       //      Mortice Kern Systems Inc. (MKS)
35 King St. N. // Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2J 2W9 // +1 (519) 884-2251
