Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.binaries.pictures,comp.security.misc,sci.image.processing
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!cc.ic.ac.uk!imperial.ac.uk!vulture
From: vulture@imperial.ac.uk (Thomas Sippel - Dau)
Subject: Re: Permanent signatures for pictures
Message-ID: <1993Mar9.142154.10297@cc.ic.ac.uk>
Sender: vulture@carrion (Thomas Sippel - Dau)
Nntp-Posting-Host: cscgc
Reply-To: cmaae47@imperial.ac.uk
Organization: Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine
References: <1993Mar4.033734.29477@oracle.us.oracle.com>
Date: Tue, 9 Mar 93 14:21:53 GMT
Lines: 54
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:14043 alt.binaries.pictures:5108 comp.security.misc:2860 sci.image.processing:2210

In article <1993Mar4.033734.29477@oracle.us.oracle.com>, mfriedma@us.oracle.com (Michael Friedman) writes:
- 
- Is there any way that I can add a customer ID to every picture I sell
- that will have little or no impact on picture quality but will not be
- removable by the customer without seriously degrading picture quality?
- That way I can't prevent pictures from being given away, but I can cut
- that customer off or even sue him.

There are two approaches to it: 

     o  protecting the scanned file

     o  protecting the picture.

The scanned file is easy, for DOS viewing, you would probably use a self
extracting executeable form, that you can just run as a program to display
the picture. The Graphics WorkShop (GWS from all good shareware archives)
will do that for you. With a bit of fiddling, you can get the customer 
licence number, address and name together with an exact explanation of the
licence terms and conditions at the beginning, and use cifer block chain
encryption from then on. The format should provide compression and some 
redundancy like embedded checksums. Any cost conscious organisation will
go elsewhere for pictures to rip off.

For Unix viewing you would probably create an X program that's easy to
compile and install, rather than using a self-extracting .exe.

To protect the picture is rather more different, as a determined ripper 
offer will go to some length to avoid detection. For example displaying
the picture on a screen, photographing the screen, then scanning the 
photograph back in will make it virtually impossible for you to prove
that your scan was used. Small numbers of flipped bits will certainly
bite the dust if the resolution is not the same as the one you used.

The same effects can be achieved with fourier transforms and palette
twiddling.

Remember that it is a valid defence is for the culprit to claim that 
it was ripped off from other artwork long out of copyright. (This is 
the standard defence against plagiarism suits in the music business)

Finally there is the whole problem of proof once courts have cottoned 
on to the fact that with digital editing of pictures a feasible operation,
the value of a picture as evidence is no more than repeating in court 
what a friend of a friend might have said - hearsay (or should that be
look-see, as the Chineese used to call it ?)

                                 Thomas
-- 
*** This is the operative statement, all previous statements are inoperative.
*   email: cmaae47 @ ic.ac.uk (Thomas Sippel - Dau) (uk.ac.ic on Janet)
*   voice: +44 71 589 5111 x4937 or 4934 (day), or +44 71 823 9497 (fax)
*   snail: Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine
*   The Center for Computing Services, Kensington SW7 2BX, Great Britain
