Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!mnr
From: Marc.Ringuette@GS80.SP.CS.CMU.EDU
Subject: Re: Permanent signatures for pictures
Message-ID: <C3nHAv.GCF.1@cs.cmu.edu>
Originator: mnr@GS80.SP.CS.CMU.EDU
Sender: news@cs.cmu.edu (Usenet News System)
Nntp-Posting-Host: gs80.sp.cs.cmu.edu
Organization: School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon
Date: Tue, 9 Mar 1993 23:16:00 GMT
Lines: 50

I wrote,
> Dow Jones has 10,000 customers, 20 of whom are in a conspiracy to steal
> and re-sell the newswire.  Can Dow Jones detect the thieves and cancel
> their subscriptions?
>
> Short answer:  yes!

You bonehead!  The answer is emphatically no!  What kind of idiot would
make such a mistake.....oh, it was me.  Actually, the problem is subtler 
than I thought.

Having worked on this a bit more, I have reversed my answer.  I've come
up with a strategy for the thieves that I don't know how to beat.  I'm
disappointed I haven't been able to make any sound theoretical claims,
but the "strategy vs. strategy" nature of this is making it difficult
for me to analyze.

Here are the strategies I've considered.  Assume that Dow Jones adopts
a scheme where "tagging the text" equals "twiddling a bit" equals
"substituting a synonym."  Also assume that the thieves are unwilling
to do wholesale word rearrangement; they rely on detecting which
changes Dow Jones has made and cancelling them out somehow.

  Dow Jones strategy:  twiddle some bits with probability 0.5+/-epsilon.
     If the thieves use majority vote, each thief will have a reasonably
     high correlation with the output bits.
  Thief countermeasure:  reliably detect which bits are being twiddled
      (by cross-checking between, say, 64 different subscriptions)
      and flip a fair coin to determine the output.

  Dow Jones strategy:  twiddle some bits with low probability (e.g. p=0.01).
      Reasonably often, the bit values will be the same for all thieves.
      If the thieves use the flip-a-coin strategy, we can determine which
      tag bits they've failed to detect, and identify them that way.
  Thief countermeasure:  use a majority vote.

  Dow Jones strategy:  hybrid of the two.
  Thief countermeasure:  hybrid of the two.  Flip a coin if the vote is 
       fairly even, go with the majority if the vote is uneven.  For
       example, get 64 subscriptions, go with the majority vote if 
       fewer than 16 dissenters, flip a fair coin otherwise.

This last strategy is the one I can't beat.

Theoretical help, anyone?  Also, if you found this to be an interesting
problem, please send me email.  The two times I've brought it up, I've
had a null response.  Maybe I'm the only person who cares.


-- Marc Ringuette (mnr@cs.cmu.edu)
