Newsgroups: alt.security.pgp,alt.security.ripem,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!wupost!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: What's out there with RSA (long).
Message-ID: <1993Mar11.051300.14725@netcom.com>
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
Date: Thu, 11 Mar 1993 05:13:00 GMT
Lines: 110
Xref: msuinfo alt.security.pgp:1663 alt.security.ripem:138 sci.crypt:14078

Excerpts from interview with Jim Bidzos of RSA. Full article, "Encryption,
Privacy, and Data Security" by Mary Eisenhart is in "Microtimes", February
22, 1993. Material is excerpted for teaching and research purposes.

"Lotus Notes is a perfect example of where encryption is headed. There are
a quarter of a million Lotus Notes users as of today, sending over one
million RSA-encrypted messages every day, and the best part is, they don't
even know it.

"In Lotus Notes, I would register you as a user and you would get an
account, and that's all you'd know. But in fact what you've gotten is your
own RSA key pair, your digital signature; everything you send will be
encrypted and authenticated and it works great. You have an account, you
send messages. If somebody tries to impersonate you and read your mail, it
doesn't happen. A quarter of a million people are sending a million
messages every day, and not even really needing to be aware of it, but
enjoying that level of privacy and security; I think it's a perfect example
of how this is done right.

"Now take Lotus, Microsoft, Sun, Novell, and you'll see where this is
heading. RSA is coming to be a standard part of the Macintosh, accessible
to application developers. That's the real beauty of it, I think. All I
want is my next favorite applications to have security built in.

By putting a high-quality implementation that is absolutely trusted by the
people who know the most about this stuff inside the operating system of
the Mac, and of Windows NT, and of UNIX, and giving applications developers
access to simple interfaces--encrypt, sign, verify--this is the way you
give the most number of people what they want, which is absolute security
with no overhead and no cost."

...

"Is the proliferation of free crypto a big threat to NSA'S ability to
snoop? I don't think that's really very much of a threat. I think what
they're really afraid of is something very different.

"Let's look at a community of people that uses cryptography. There's tons
of software out there, and it's not just recent. Does it look like more and
more people have been using it lately? I don't know about that."

...

"What I think the government is trying to do is collect intelligence. Their
job is ...finding needles in a haystack. .... They have to target people,
they're looking for something that's specific. That's the needle. if you
picture black lines on a map going over the Atlantic as encrypted traffic,
that's the haystack.

"So if you have a few hundred or a few thousand or a few tens of thousands
of people sending little email messages back and forth, you know the email
address, you know where they're going, so who cares? If there's something
there that you're interested in, you zero in on it and you go get it. That
doesn't make the haystack so big that your mission of finding the needles
becomes impossible. If you had every telephone call and every fax machine
sending encrypted data over the Atlantic, the haystack now becomes so large
that your job of finding the needles becomes impossible, you can't
guarantee your customers that you can deliver anymore"

...

[Scenario of NSA briefing the President. First they remind him of the good
stuff he gets from them every day.]

"'Sure we can buy some software on the streets of Moscow. The day we lift
export controls, the amount of encrypted traffic increases a thousandfold.
If you lift export controls in any other country, the impact is
negligible--how many Microsofts are there in Europe? But if you lift them
in the US, encrypted traffic increases a thousand fold.'

"'So Bill, I don't care what you can buy on the streets of Moscow; the fact
is that all those fax machines and telephones and computers having this
built-in idiot-proof, so anybody can use it, will increase the amount of
traffic we have to deal with to the point where we can't give you all those
intelligence reports any more. You won't get it'

"Now we don't know what BIll gets, but we have to assume it has some value.
History is on the side of the guy from NSA. What we're trying to accomplish
by this policy of keeping export controls on US companies is very
effective. I don't think Clinton will say, 'No, it's more important that
Apple be able to sell strong encryption in France.'"

[Bidzos goes on to argue that this will change. That IBM will come to the
President with a billion-dollar mainframe sale in Germany that requires
security. He concludes by arguing that in the future security will be
giving as many people as possible good encryption because we're the ones
who will be vulnerable.]

"Whatever possible intelligence is lost to NSA by privacy being everywhere
has to pale in comparison to the benefits of securing this automated
society and protecting it from things like electronic terrorism and
electronic espionage."

The article contains an excellent review of DES, RSA, Public Key
cryptography, signatures, authentication, etc. It contains an extensive
interview with Prof. Martin Hellman of Stanford, and much useful material
on the conflicts between privacy and the needs of the FBI and NSA.

Microtimes is published by BAM Publications Inc., 3470 Buskirk Ave.,
Pleasant Hill, CA 94523. (510) 934-3700. It is available by subscription,
and free at many computer stores throughout California. For Los Angeles
readers, I got this copy at Di-No Computers in Pasadena.

David

-- 
David Sternlight         Great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
                         our information, errors and omissions excepted.  


