Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!mnr
From: Marc.Ringuette@GS80.SP.CS.CMU.EDU
Subject: Re: Permanent signatures for pictures
Message-ID: <C3oz45.GD.1@cs.cmu.edu>
Originator: mnr@GS80.SP.CS.CMU.EDU
Sender: news@cs.cmu.edu (Usenet News System)
Nntp-Posting-Host: gs80.sp.cs.cmu.edu
Organization: School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon
Date: Wed, 10 Mar 1993 20:58:00 GMT
Lines: 47

Mike Friedman has some on-target comments in response to my message.

mnr> 1. The taggee must not be able to "smooth away" all tag bits.
mnr> In the case of text, small changes in word choice are a good candidate.
mnr> I'll leave the image case for someone else to deal with, but it shouldn't
mnr> be a major problem in my opinion.

mfriedma> I think you are finessing the issue here.  If the thief uses lossy
mfriedma> compression won't this change many bits?  Would changes to randomly
mfriedma> selected low order bits survive?

Yes, I was sidestepping this important issue in order to get to the one
I had more insight on.  It's definitely true that low-order bits are
pretty easy to smooth away.  In the general case, I see two sides of
the issue:

   1.  The changes must be "important" enough that the thief can't
       smooth them all away.

   2.  The changes shouldn't be "important" enough that the picture
       becomes worthless!

The tagger has an advantage in this case, though.  He can change, say,
1 in 1000 of these "important, non-smoothable-away" candidate bits.  If
the thief wants to cancel them out and only has a single copy of the
picture, he must somehow canonicalize _all_ of the candidate tag bits,
or some very large proportion of them.

So if your tagging process does a little bit of "damage" to your
picture, like in the map-maker case of adding an extra small street
here and there, then the opponent must either try to detect exactly
where your damage is, or must make wholesale changes to the image (such
as removing all small roads altogether).  The thief, in trying to cover
up your damage, must make a thousand times as much damage.  Choose your
damage level appropriately so that your level of damage isn't too much
but the thief's is.

----

On the subject of defeating thieves' cross-correlation of tag bits,
yes, I'm in trouble.  As I said in my last message, I can defeat
thieves who use _either_ majority vote or coin-flipping, but not the
hybrid strategy.  I don't plan to work on this much more, but I'll keep
an eye out for literature on the subject.


-- Marc Ringuette (mnr@cs.cmu.edu)
