Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!wupost!uunet!pipex!bnr.co.uk!uknet!pavo.csi.cam.ac.uk!rja14
From: rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (Ross Anderson)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security
Subject: Buy IBM and get fired
Message-ID: <1993Mar12.155124.16279@infodev.cam.ac.uk>
Date: 12 Mar 93 15:51:24 GMT
Sender: news@infodev.cam.ac.uk (USENET news)
Organization: U of Cambridge Computer Lab, UK
Lines: 41
Nntp-Posting-Host: ely.cl.cam.ac.uk
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:14119 alt.security:9475

The press in Britain this morning has been full of stories about Taurus. This
was a share dealing system in which the London stock exchange and local
institutions had invested some 400 million pounds (600 million dollars). It
didn't work and a review showed that there was no reasonable prospect of it
working; it seems that it just got too complex to cope with.

It has now been written off and the chief executive of the stock exchange 
`resigned' today.

A fair bit of the previous press criticism centred on the security, which was
designed by IBM and was apparently rather difficult to manage. As far as one can 
tell from the press reports, it used their `common cryptographic architecture' 
of 4753s for central control, DES cards in PS/2's for terminal security, and 
smartcards for personal key management. Coopers and Lybrand, the systems 
integrators, have also got a fair bit of stick (they sponsored Eurocrypt 91, or
so I seem to recall).

It will be interesting to see if this marks a turning point for bankers'
attitude to crypto technology. Up to now, it has been hard to sell things like 
formal methods or elliptic curves to men in suits, as DES in steel boxes was 
what they were comfortable with.

Future systems however may well use public key algorithms, and maybe even 
electronic wallets which distribute the security processing entirely into 
smartcards.

In that case, expect further entertainment, as some of the complexity will be 
pushed into the settlement process, or the arbitration system, or the key 
management mechanism; and the lack of relevant systems experience will exact 
its pound of flesh in one way or another.

Our head of department remarked that such fiascos can be compared to the
civil engineering disasters of the nineteenth century such as the collapse of
the Tay bridge. Civil engineers eventually got their act together, but there 
was a long learning process in which they worked out how to strucure their
approach to large problems and combine the maths with the project management
in a way that worked.

Watch this space!

Ross
