Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp,alt.security.keydist,alt.society.civil-liberty,alt.privacy,alt.politics.usa.constitution
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!warwick!marble.uknet.ac.uk!mcsun!news.funet.fi!funic!nntp.hut.fi!usenet
From: jkp@cs.HUT.FI (Jyrki Kuoppala)
Subject: Cryptography as munitions (was Re: DES, RSA export from U.S.)
In-Reply-To: howland@noc2.arc.nasa.gov (Curt Howland)
Message-ID: <1993Mar12.210753.21441@nntp.hut.fi>
Followup-To: alt.security.pgp,alt.security.keydist,alt.society.civil-liberty,alt.privacy,alt.politics.usa.constitution
Sender: usenet@nntp.hut.fi (Usenet pseudouser id)
Nntp-Posting-Host: lusmu.cs.hut.fi
Reply-To: jkp@cs.HUT.FI (Jyrki Kuoppala)
Organization: Helsinki University of Technology, Finland
References: <1993Mar4.110654.26984@qualcomm.com> <WCS.93Mar9175132@rainier.ATT.COM> <WCS.93Mar9184921@rainier.ATT.COM> <1993Mar10.043756.7347@netcom.com> <C3pJwu.MF6@dscomsa.desy.de> <C3qG6r.Dvn@moscow.uidaho.edu> <1993Mar12.023428.775@news.arc.nasa.gov>
Date: Fri, 12 Mar 1993 21:07:53 GMT
Lines: 116
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:14125 alt.security.pgp:1707 alt.security.keydist:73 alt.society.civil-liberty:8531 alt.privacy:6155 alt.politics.usa.constitution:1820

In article <1993Mar12.023428.775@news.arc.nasa.gov>, howland@noc2 (Curt Howland) writes:
>Munitions? Possessing and using encryption is
>rather hard for me to picture in the same catagory
>as carrying a loaded gun.

That's because you're looking at from a private citizen's perspective
and are not thinking it through, are not seeing the power game.  If
you look at it from the point of the government, encryption _is_ very
much in the same category.

Let me explain.  A common way of governments to keep control of the
masses is to keep an eye on them, watch what they are doing, and so
on.  They gather information that way and keep files on questionable
political and criminal activity.  Intelligence agencies and other
government agencies have big budgets and listen to the radio spectrum,
to telephone networks, to data networks.

Now, you might say "but that's just information on enemies".  Think
again - think what happened with people of Japanese origin living in
USA some time ago, or the Jews living in Europe.  The information in
government records was used directly against the people home.  At
peacetime, the government might be reasonably respective of the
citizen's rights, but at crisis time the rules change _very_ rapidly.

When for whatever reason "the going gets tough" and the government
decides to declare an emergency/martial law, a very important thing to
do is to know what people with key resources are up to.  People with
communications resources: hams, people with access to satellite comms,
people with powerful radio equipment.  People with "questionable"
political ideas or foreign buddies.  People with special skills.  The
government will want to make sure which side these people are on, and
many of these people will have a visit from the government.  It will
depend on various factors whether the visit is friendly.

To a lesser (variable from time to time and form country to country)
degree the "visits" also happens at peacetime, during "smooth going".
Things like COINTELPRO, BBS raids, Waco, DEA attacking people.  I'm
not talking about law enforcement and justice in the sense that the
government punishes someone who has broken a law - no, I'm talking
about _potentially_ dangerous activity.  Pretty much like the talk
about terrorism - the idea being that if one terrorist group is
tolerated, there will be more.  But if the first terrorist group is
scared away, the rest won't dare operate.  Scare tactics.  But that's
beside the point, sorry.

Back to the topic.  It is important for the government to keep files
on people so it will know whom to visit (it doesn't have resources to
visit everyone, and priorities need to be set), and to be able to keep
files it will have to gather information.

There are many ways to gather info on people - registration laws are
one.  Gun registrations, amateur radio licenses, RSA licenses, etc.
Criminals registers are another (normal police).  Intelligence data is
another.  With the age of communications, data in electronic form is a
very important source.

If everyone uses encryption, it will be very difficult for the
government to gather the information.  More and more communication is
moving to electronic form.  If it's encrypted, the governments will
lose a tremendous amount of power.  Using strong cryptography
routinely _is_ being a revolutionary, it is positing oneself directly
against the government's important interests of being able to monitor
communications.

Or, in other words, from an interview with Jim Bidzos of RSA in
"Microtimes", February 22, 1993 posted by David Sternlight to sci.crypt:

"What I think the government is trying to do is collect intelligence. Their
job is ...finding needles in a haystack. .... They have to target people,
they're looking for something that's specific. That's the needle. if you
picture black lines on a map going over the Atlantic as encrypted traffic,
that's the haystack.

"So if you have a few hundred or a few thousand or a few tens of thousands
of people sending little email messages back and forth, you know the email
address, you know where they're going, so who cares? If there's something
there that you're interested in, you zero in on it and you go get it. That
doesn't make the haystack so big that your mission of finding the needles
becomes impossible. If you had every telephone call and every fax machine
sending encrypted data over the Atlantic, the haystack now becomes so large
that your job of finding the needles becomes impossible, you can't
guarantee your customers that you can deliver anymore"

>Anyway, it seems to be a common thought here that
>this is a travesty, and unfounded, so I shall not
>preach to the converted.
>
>Thanks to the writers of PGP, it is a beginning.

The situation may change - if enough people do start to use strong
encryption routinely, finding the needle will be impossible, and all
people can't be imprisoned.  People would have more power and the
governments would have less power.

The government might say - sure, use encryption all you want as long
as you register with us and use it for limited purposes in limited
amount (important business interests, for example), so when the crisis
comes we have your address can come and visit you, and shoot a bullet
thru your encryption equipment.  Better yet, they might give you black
boxes for encryption which have a back door so that the government
will be able to listen, or even better a back door to disable the box
altogether.

What we see Dorothy Denning again proposing in various publications
for the U.S. government is exactly what the previous paragraph says.
Other governments have similar rules in place.  I think the issue is
plainly and simply a question of power - who can be trusted with
power.  The government?  The citizen?  It's simply a matter of whether
the government knows best or whether you know best.  The framers of
U.S. Constitution didn't seem to trust the government very much, and I
don't see any reason to disagree with them, especially at times like
this.

Followups directed out of sci.crypt.

//Jyrki
