Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!mnr
From: Marc.Ringuette@GS80.SP.CS.CMU.EDU
Subject: Re: Permanent signatures for pictures
Message-ID: <C3wMo6.us.1@cs.cmu.edu>
Originator: mnr@GS80.SP.CS.CMU.EDU
Sender: news@cs.cmu.edu (Usenet News System)
Nntp-Posting-Host: gs80.sp.cs.cmu.edu
Organization: School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon
Date: Sun, 14 Mar 1993 23:56:00 GMT
Lines: 32

Regarding the text-tagging subthread of this discussion,

mnr >> Dow Jones has 10,000 customers, 20 of whom are in a conspiracy to steal
mnr >> and re-sell the newswire.  Can Dow Jones detect the thieves and cancel
mnr >> their subscriptions?

gordon > My approach:  do bit-twiddling with a wide variety of probabilities,
gordon > between 0.5 and 1/N.  Compute an "Index of Suspicion" for each 
gordon > subscriber...

Gordon Burditt's approach is exactly what I was investigating; it's a
sane approach, but unfortunately the number of tag bits required to
detect thieves is exponential in the number of thieves.  The main
difference between Gordon and me is that he's happy with this result
and I'm disappointed with it.

I would also be happier with a more mathematically sound analysis.  How
many tag bits are needed to detect M thieves out of N subscribers with
high probability?  Unfortunately, because of the "strategy vs. strategy"
nature of this problem, such an analysis has been beyond me so far.
The best I've been able to do is this:  "The number of bits you need is
something around 2^(2M) * log(N), I think..."

It just occurred to me that I could use a simulation where my analysis
fails me.  If I implement such a thing, I'll let you know the results; 
please do likewise if you get around to it before I do.

A friend of mine mumbled something about a paper in a crypto conference that
might be relevant, but I couldn't dig it up.  Anybody seen such a thing?


-- Marc Ringuette (mnr@cs.cmu.edu)
