Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!uunet!pipex!demon!gtoal.com!gtoal
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
From: gtoal@gtoal.com (Graham Toal)
Subject: Re: The Tay bridge was Re: Buy IBM and get fired
Date: Mon, 15 Mar 1993 03:40:41 +0000
Message-ID: <9303150340.AA00620@pizzabox.demon.co.uk>
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk
Lines: 89

: From: nguyenth@floreal.ufr-info-p7.ibp.fr (Nguyen Florence)

: >Our head of department remarked that such fiascos can be compared to the
: >civil engineering disasters of the nineteenth century such as the collapse of
: >the Tay bridge.

: Just for the ones who wonder what's the Tay Bridge.
: It was build at the beginning of this century as being the
: longest bridge in the world. Unfortunately due to engineers' evident
: mistakes (bad materials, under-estimation of the wind force...)
: the bridge failed one evening while a train was over-speeding
: on it and when the wind was pretty strong. I don't remember the 
: number of victims.

I beg your indulgence for a small sidetrack to one of Scotland's greatest
epic poems...

                  "The Tay Bridge Disaster"
            
            Beautiful Railway Bridge of the Silv'ry Tay!
            Alas! I am very sorry to say
            That ninety lives have been taken away
            On the Sabbath day of 1879,
            Which will be remember'd for a very long time.
            
            'Twas about seven o'clock at night,
            And the wind it blew with all its might,
            And the rain came pouring down,
            And the dark clouds seem'd to frown,
            And the Demon of the air seem'd to say ---
            "I'll blow down the Bridge of Tay."
            
            When the train left Edinburgh
            The passengers' hearts were light and felt no sorrow,
            But Boreas blew a terrific gale,
            Which made their hearts for to quail,
            And many of the passengers with fear did say ---
            "I hope God will send us safe across the Bridge of Tay."
            
            But when the train came near to Wormit Bay,
            Boreas he did loud and angry bray,
            And shook the central girders of the Bridge of Tay
            On the last Sabbath day of 1879,
            Which will be remember'd for a very long time.
            
            So the train sped on with all its might,
            And Bonnie Dundee soon hove in sight,
            And the passengers' hearts felt light,
            Thinking they would enjoy themselves on the New Year,
            With their friends at home they lov'd most dear,
            And wish them all a happy New Year.
            
            So the train mov'd slowly along the Bridge of Tay,
            Until it was about Midway,
            Then the central girders with a crash gave way,
            And down went the train and passengers into the Tay!
            The Storm Fiend did loudly bray,
            Because ninety lives had been taken away,
            On the last Sabbath day of 1879,
            Which will be remember'd for a very long time.
            
            As soon as the catastrophe came to be known
            The alarm from mouth to mouth was blown,
            And the cry rang out all o'er the town,
            Good Heavens!  the Tay Bridge is blown down,
            And a passenger train from Edinburgh,
            Which fill'd all the people's hearts with sorrow,
            And made them for to turn pale,
            Because none of the passengers were sav'd to tell the tale
            How the disaster happen'd on the last Sabbath day of 1879
            Which will be remember'd for a very long time.
            
            It must have been an awful sight,
            To witness in the dusky moonlight,
            While the Storm Fiend did laugh, and angry did bray,
            Along the Railway Bridge of the Silv'ry Tay.
            Oh!  ill-fated Bridge of the Silv'ry Tay,
            I must now conclude my lay
            By telling the world fearlessly without the least dismay,
            That your central girders would not have given way,
            At least many sensible men do say,
            Had they been supported on each side with buttresses,
            At least many sensible men confesses,
            For the stronger we our houses do build,
            The less chance we have of being killed.
            
            
                                    --- William Topaz McGonagall
            
