Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!linac!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!pipex!bnr.co.uk!bmdhh130!bcars267!bcars267!emcoop
From: emcoop@bnr.ca (hume smith)
Subject: Re: The Tay bridge was Re: Buy IBM and get fired
In-Reply-To: gtoal@gtoal.com's message of Mon, 15 Mar 1993 03:40:41 +0000
Message-ID: <EMCOOP.93Mar16154119@bcars148.bnr.ca>
Sender: news@bnr.ca (usenet)
Nntp-Posting-Host: bcars148
Organization: Bell-Northern Research, Ottawa, Canada
References: <9303150340.AA00620@pizzabox.demon.co.uk>
Date: Tue, 16 Mar 1993 20:41:19 GMT
Lines: 72

> From: nguyenth@floreal.ufr-info-p7.ibp.fr (Nguyen Florence)

> >Our head of department remarked that such fiascos can be compared to the
> >civil engineering disasters of the nineteenth century such as the collapse of
> >the Tay bridge.

> Just for the ones who wonder what's the Tay Bridge.  It was build at
> the beginning of this century as being the longest bridge in the
> world.

just to pick nits that are surely becoming very boring to sci.crypt...

it collapsed in December 1879, so it was actually built well before the
beginning of this century.  it was, at the time, the longest metalwork
bridge in the world (i'm not sure it was the longest bridge of any type).

> Unfortunately due to engineers' evident mistakes (bad
> materials, under-estimation of the wind force...)

thomas bouch was the engineer's name.  he got knighted for building
the tay.  i don't know if the knighthood was revoked...  but his plans
for a bridge over the Firth of Forth were discarded and the present
Forth bridge is substantially overbuilt because of the fright of the
Tay collapse.  he died a few years later.

the materials were truly shoddy.  this was one of the last times cast
iron was used for such construction.  cast iron is notorious for
structural work even when carefully cast; the foundry for the Tay was
so slipshod that something like half the castings were rejected.  any
"minor" flaws in "acceptable" castings were filled with a concoction
called "beaumont egg" (i think) which was a mixture of beeswax,
lampblack, eggwhite, and the like.

the original design had fourteen spans of "high girders" (so-called
because they were through trusses for marine clearance).  the number
of spans was reduced to thirteen when it was dicovered that the
surveys that had been made for bedrock were completely unreliable.
the foundations had to be dug much deeper than originally expected.
it's believed that a good number of the piers were never actually
properly supported.  it was these thirteen high girders which fell.

the man that was placed in charge of maintenace of the longest metal
bridge in the world, was an apprentice bricklayer.  he had no
experience with metal.

it was considered remarkable, after the inquest, that the damn thing
stood for the two years that it did.

>  the bridge failed one evening while a train was over-speeding on it
> and when the wind was pretty strong.

the train had just entered the "high girders" when one of the gusts
for which the Tay was infamous came along.  given bouch's ridiculous
wind-load figures (instead of actually measuring, he just went and
asked the astronomer-royal what to expect), the crappy castings, the
loss of rivets and bolts and braces, and the weight of the train and
the side-thrust of the wind on the train and girders, the middle
thirteen spans blew over sideways.

> I don't remember the number of victims.

something like seventy-five.  it was initially thought over three
hundred were aboard, but the tickets collected had been put into one
box with the entire day's take, and it took a lot of tracing to figure
out just how many went down.

the locomotive was salvaged and refurbished and returned to pulling
the same train over the same route over the replacement bridge.
--
Hume Smith                     Homer: Mmmm... purple.
hume.smith@acadiau.ca             me: Mmmm... Indigo.
hume.smith@bnr.ca                   
