Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!uunet!vnet.IBM.COM
From: tarnold@vnet.IBM.COM (Todd W. Arnold)
Message-ID: <19930317.055730.442@almaden.ibm.com>
Date: Wed, 17 Mar 93 08:44:39 EST
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security
Subject: Re: Buy IBM and get fired
Organization: IBM Cryptographic Facility Development
Disclaimer: This posting represents the poster's views, not those of IBM
News-Software: UReply 3.1
References: <1993Mar12.155124.16279@infodev.cam.ac.uk>
Lines: 52
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:14217 alt.security:9554

In <1993Mar12.155124.16279@infodev.cam.ac.uk> Ross Anderson writes:
>The press in Britain this morning has been full of stories about Taurus. This
>was a share dealing system in which the London stock exchange and local
>institutions had invested some 400 million pounds (600 million dollars). It
>didn't work and a review showed that there was no reasonable prospect of it
>working; it seems that it just got too complex to cope with.
>
>It has now been written off and the chief executive of the stock exchange
>`resigned' today.
>
>A fair bit of the previous press criticism centred on the security, which was
>designed by IBM and was apparently rather difficult to manage. As far as one can
>tell from the press reports, it used their `common cryptographic architecture'
>of 4753s for central control, DES cards in PS/2's for terminal security, and
>smartcards for personal key management. Coopers and Lybrand, the systems
>integrators, have also got a fair bit of stick (they sponsored Eurocrypt 91, or
>so I seem to recall).

This gave a rather unfair appraisal of IBM security products.  In fact, this
part of the system was finished, installed, and tested.  I've been asked to
post the following "official" description of the situation, so everyone knows
what really happened.

 "The  overall  Taurus  project  was managed by the London Stock Exchange with
  Coopers and Lybrand and other consultants in a number of key management  po-
  sitions;  with a range of contractors involved in sub-projects modifying and
  enhancing the Stock Exchange systems.

  A US software house was meant to be providing a new custody application  and
  IBM  provided a market-leading security infrastructure.  The shelving of the
  overall TAURUS project is for reasons unconnected with IBM's role.

  IBM's involvement has been as subcontractor for the TAURUS Message  Security
  system.  This leading-edge development exploited IBM ICRF host cryptography,
  OS/2, smart cards, and PS/2 cryptography and signature verification technol-
  ogy  to  deliver an outstandingly secure method of transferring data between
  member firms and the Stock Exchange.

  The  development  was  successfully  completed  last summer, then rigorously
  acceptance-tested by the Stock Exchange.   IBM installed the  system  across
  200+  separate  financial  institutions,    completing  on  time in February
  against an aggressive schedule."

I've been told that the massive complexity of the back-end settlement systems
was a major factor in the collapse, but I don't really know all the details.

(Note that the "signature verification technology" mentioned above is dynamic
signature verification, a biometric technology -- not public key digital
signatures.  RSA public key functions are also available in TSS, but that's
not what was used in Taurus.)

- Todd
