Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!wupost!uunet!vnet.IBM.COM
From: tarnold@vnet.IBM.COM (Todd W. Arnold)
Message-ID: <19930317.104632.975@almaden.ibm.com>
Date: Wed, 17 Mar 93 13:32:02 EST
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Buy IBM and get fired
Organization: IBM Cryptographic Facility Development
Disclaimer: This posting represents the poster's views, not those of IBM
News-Software: UReply 3.1
References: <19930317.055730.442@almaden.ibm.com>
            <1993Mar17.153713.1618@fnbc.com>
Lines: 46

Digital signatures computed with public key cryptography (RSA, DSS, etc.)
are a means to prove who originated an electronic message.  You "sign" your
message using your private key, from the public/private key pair.  The
recipient of the message "verifies" the signature using the public key from
the pair.  If he is able to verify using the public component of your key,
it absolutely proves that you are the one who signed the original data.
This may be used for electronic mail, electronic payments, etc.  It not only
proves to YOU who the sender was, but also provides a way for you to prove at
a later time that he did indeed send you that message.  (This is called
non-repudiation.)

Signature Dynamics, on the other hand, is not directly related to cryptography
at all.  It is a means of proving who a physical person is (as opposed to
verifying where data came from).  It's a form of "biometric identification"
which means you identify a person based on some inherent physical
characteristic nobody else could falsify.  In the case of signature dynamics,
you are verifying the way a person writes his or her name.  You do NOT verify
the way their signature LOOKS (and thus traditional forgers are useless).
What you're verifying is the way the person moves the pen as they sign their
name.

In the case of the IBM system, we have a special pen that contains sensors
to measure the necessary signals.  It has a pressure sensor to measure the
pressure on the pen point as you write, and it has two accelerometers to
measure the acceleration (related to speed) in two perpendicular directions.
The algorithms are rotationally invariant, so it doesn't matter if you
rotate the pen to put the accelerometers in different positions.  The outputs
of these sensors are sampled to get a measurement of how these signals vary
over time.

With any biometric system, you have to "enroll" before you can start to use
it.  Enrollment collects sample data, which will later be compared with the
data you present when you try to verify.  The reference data may be stored in
a central database, but it's usually more effective if you can make it
portable, so it goes everywhere the individual goes.  In our case, we put
the signature reference data on a smart card.

Well, I've started to ramble on about this...  I hope that gives you some
idea what I was talking about.

    - Todd

---------------------------------------------
From:  Todd Arnold
       IBM Cryptographic Facility Development
       Charlotte, NC
