Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!linac!att!att-out!cbnewsh!wcs
From: wcs@cbnewsh.cb.att.com (Bill Stewart 908-949-0705 erebus.att.com!wcs)
Subject: Re: Documentation wanted
Organization: Bill Stewart,  Opinions for sale or rent
Date: Thu, 18 Mar 1993 23:23:34 GMT
Message-ID: <1993Mar18.232334.5107@cbnewsh.cb.att.com>
In-Reply-To: kevinc@solman.kpc.com's message of Thu, 18 Mar 1993 00:20:23 GMT
References: <1993Mar18.002023.17045@kpc.com>
Lines: 66
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:14256 alt.security.pgp:1862

In article <1993Mar18.002023.17045@kpc.com> kevinc@solman.kpc.com (Kevin Cameron) writes:
   I recently told a friend of mine that various government agencies (FBI,
   NSA, etc) were attempting to get legislation passed which would prohibit
   the use of ciphers which are "unbreakable" (relatively speaking) by
   the government.  He was as shocked as I had been when I first heard that
   news.  Then he asked me where I had heard it.  I said "on Usenet".  Then
   he said something to the effect of "well, if you believe everything you
   read on Usenet ... ".  I had to admit that he had a point.

Look at Effector Online, Issue 1.07, available from ftp.eff.org,
/pub/EFF/newsletters/effector1.07 .  It discusses the EFF's successful
attempt to lobby the government not to adopt S.266, which would
prevent providers of electronic communications services and
manufacturers of electronic communications services equipment
from offering stuff that the government couldn't read when they wanted to.
(This caused my opinion of EFF to go from "That's nice" to "Hey, these
guys are accomplishing something!")

Also look at /pub/EFF/legislation/fbi-wiretap-bill and new-fbi-wiretap-bill
which are proposals by the FBI during 1991-1992 (not very successful,
which is why they don't have bill numbers) to get CONgress to pass a
law requiring communications service providers and PBX operators! to
provide the capability for the government to wiretap their services,
from a remote "government monitoring facility", when they have warrants.
The early proposal for the bill wouldn't even let service providers
install new or upgraded technology which the government couldn't tap
efficiently.  It's really offensive stuff.

Aside from that, there's the whole collection of legal argument
regarding export of cryptographic software and hardware,
which may be classified as Munitions under ITAR (International
Trafficking in Arms Regulations), and there's enough ambiguity about
whether you have to get permission from the NSA or Commerce Dept to
export something that you have to either risk being busted as an arms dealer,
or else kowtow to the NSA, which means you can't get a permit for
anything that's adequately secure and usable for general applications -
you can only ship non-secure stuff, or special-purpose equipment 
(like bank wire transfer products), or general-purpose equipment sold
to "friendly" military forces.  Some of the cellular phone companies
have been burned by this, or by similar regulations by other governments.

John Gilmore, among other people, contend that free public-domain software
is not subject to the ITARs, based on his reading of the applicable laws.
I think I agree, but I haven't done the research he has;
one difficulty with the American court system is that the only way to
get most kinds of laws overturned in court is to violate them,
get busted, and win in court.  Otherwise, you don't have a case,
and the courts won't hear it.  That's fine for minor bogus laws
like local laws against political pamphletting which carry $50 fines;
it's a really dangerous game to play when the penalty is many years
in jail, vary large fines, confiscation of your assets before the trial,
and a large government agency that doesn't want to lose helping out
the prosecution, especially when the case includes complex technical issues,
contradictory laws, messy bureaucratic turf issues about export regulation,
and emotionally charged buzzwords like National Security, Terrorism, 
Drug Dealers, International Child Porn Rings, and, until recently, Communism.
Not many people are willing to risk it, so the alternatives are either
quiet non-compliance or trying to get bad laws changed by the people
who made them in the first place....


-- 

				Pray for peace;      Bill
#Bill Stewart 908-949-0705 wcs@anchor.ho.att.com AT&T Bell Labs 4M312 Holmdel NJ
# Any technology distinguishable from magic is not sufficiently advanced ...
