Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!sun-barr!olivea!uunet!vnet.IBM.COM
From: tarnold@vnet.IBM.COM (Todd W. Arnold)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Buy IBM and get fired
Message-ID: <19930319.045159.66@almaden.ibm.com>
Date: 19 Mar 93 12:39:05 GMT
References: <19930317.055730.442@almaden.ibm.com><1993Mar17.153713.1618@fnbc.com> <19930317.104632.975@almaden.ibm.com>
            <1993Mar18.144852.2598@vixvax.mgi.com>
Organization: IBM Cryptographic Facility Development
Lines: 43
Disclaimer: This posting represents the poster's views, not those of IBM
News-Software: UReply 3.1

As people have pointed out, it's easy to build a biometric/smart card system
that's easy to defeat.  We didn't do that.  There are a number of levels of
protection.

1.  The smart card and the device doing the verification have a cryptographic
    relationship.  Each time you use the smart card, the two devices establish
    a randomly-derived session key, based on other keys stored internal to
    each in secure memory.  The signature data, and other critical
    communications, are encrypted under this session key as they are sent
    between devices.  This prevents tapping and replay of signature data, as
    well as substitution of "fake" data in real time.  The sampled signature
    data from the pen is encrypted in a similar way.

2.  Our smart card supports multiple "user profiles", which define the
    authority of the card user(s).  As with any computer system, you would
    define a fairly low level of authority for the day-to-day card user,
    but you would also define profiles for one or more security administrators.
    The cardholder would not have the authority to change the signature data
    on the smart card.  Only the appropriate security administrator would have
    a high enough level of authority to do that.  Thus, you can't steal a card
    and substitute your own signature data for that of the true owner.

3.  You could always buy a brand new smart card and install your own signature
    data, but that wouldn't do you any good.  The card wouldn't have the
    necessary secret (DES) keys that are installed and maintained by the
    owner of the system you're trying to use.

As someone mentioned, it's technically possible to cut the wire from the pen
and tap/inject signals.  That's an EXTREMELY unlikely scenario, though.  The
wire is sitting right in front of you on the table.  I don't know about the
rest of you, but I'm not going to sign to authorize something if I see a
splice in that wire, with another wire leading off the back of the table.
None of the real world users see that as a concern.

On the subject of fingerprint and hand geometry readers...  I've heard that
some manufacturers have infrared sensors to try and determine if the finger
or hand is alive.  I don't know how well they work, but I'm sure it's not too
difficult to stop dead body parts or plastic replicas.  The attacker will have
to be a little more sophisticated than that.  Readers with features like this
provide a pretty sizeable "speed bump", but they don't prevent attacks
entirely.

- Todd
