Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!wupost!uunet!world!ariel
From: ariel@world.std.com (Robert L Ullmann)
Subject: Re: Time dependent encryption
Message-ID: <C468tA.C7I@world.std.com>
Encoding: 32 Text, 9 Text Signature
Organization: The World in Boston
References: <1993Mar18.033450.10612@socrates.umd.edu>
Date: Sat, 20 Mar 1993 05:05:34 GMT
Lines: 42

tatum@socrates.umd.edu (Jonathan Ken Tatum) writes:
> Some years ago in high school, I had an idea that one could defeat the use
> of supercomputers for breaking an encryption scheme by designing a scheme
> that was dependent upon the speed at which the plaintext was encrypted and
> decrypted.  I never had a chance to follow up on it, but it seemed
> interesting.  I thought at first that this could be accomplished by
> recording performance information regarding the encrypting/decrypting
> computer and using this as part of the key.  I discarded that possibility,
> since the same information could be fed into a supercomputer and used for
> the cryptanalysis (providing the machine used was known).  Recently I had
> an idea that a time-dependent encryption could be accomplished with some
> sort of black box that used a time-inherent physics principle of some
> sort.  Does anyone else have any ideas?

Hi,

This is indeed the kind of cross-disciplinary insight of which major
breakthroughs are often made.

Problem: the "supercomputers" used for brute-force breaking of symmetric
ciphers with known or identifiable plaintext are massively-parallel
machines, with the individual components running in the same timeframes
as the devices used by the opfor.

Question for you to pursue: can quantum mechanics yield a method of
keyed encryption that is inherently dependent upon physical time-space,
and cannot be accelerated or attacked by parallel methods?

Before you despair of the latter (preventing parallel attacks) read
(for example) Sci. Am. July 1992 pp 94-104. And good luck!

Robert

--
Robert Ullmann		Ariel@World.STD.COM	+1 508 879 6994 x226
Quand Maigret poussa la porte du Tabac Fontaine, vers une heure et demie,
le patron du bar, qui venait de se lever, descendait lentement un escalier
en colima먾on qui s'amor먾ait dans l'arri먿re-salle. ... Arriv멀 derri먿re le
comptoir, il repousa le gar먾on d'un geste n멀gligent de la main, saisit
une bouteille de vin blanc, un verre, m멀langea au vin de l'eau min멀rale et,
la t멁te renvers멀e en arri먿re, se gargarisa.  -- Simenon
[text is ISO 10646 UTF-1 universal character set]
