Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!sun-barr!olivea!uunet!pipex!bnr.co.uk!uknet!pavo.csi.cam.ac.uk!rja14
From: rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (Ross Anderson)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Buy IBM and get fired
Message-ID: <1993Mar20.130317.4922@infodev.cam.ac.uk>
Date: 20 Mar 93 13:03:17 GMT
References: <19930317.055730.442@almaden.ibm.com><1993Mar17.153713.1618@fnbc.com> <19930317.104632.975@almaden.ibm.com> <19930319.045159.66@almaden.ibm.com>
Sender: news@infodev.cam.ac.uk (USENET news)
Organization: U of Cambridge Computer Lab, UK
Lines: 97
Nntp-Posting-Host: ely.cl.cam.ac.uk


In article <19930319.045159.66@almaden.ibm.com>, tarnold@vnet.IBM.COM 
(Todd W. Arnold) writes (about the signature verification tablet in IBM's TSS):

|>     The smart card and the device doing the verification have a cryptographic
|>     relationship.  Each time you use the smart card, the two devices establish
|>     a randomly-derived session key, based on other keys stored internal to
|>     each in secure memory.  The signature data, and other critical
|>     communications, are encrypted under this session key as they are sent
|>     between devices.  This prevents tapping and replay of signature data, as
|>     well as substitution of "fake" data in real time.  The sampled signature
|>     data from the pen is encrypted in a similar way.

I can't help thinking that this is a rather longwinded way to go about things.
Bankers need

(a)	some means of keeping fraud down to affordable levels - they were
	happy for years with card fraud rates (they started to mushroom 
	recently). This control must also have a low `insult rate' (probability 
	of rejecting a valid customer).

(b)	a means of resolving disputed transactions. Just saying `our system is
	infallible' is no good as it leads to bad publicity and expensive
	lawsuits (as some banks in Britain are now finding out).

Old fashioned PINs satisfy condition (a) provided the system is managed right 
(which it very often isn't). However they can't cope with condition (b).

The best current response to this problem may be video rather than biometrics or
crypto. In the USA, a number of banks use cameras; in the UK, the Alliance and 
Leicester has been doing this and has not only succeeded in controlling fraud, 
but has also escaped the current wave of litigation over disputed transactions. 
Their experience shows that ATM cameras pay, and so the other banks will buy them.

I was talking a couple of months ago with a security person from a large London
bank's credit card division. It begins to look like video cameras will be used
in credit card transactions as well. The merchant will only be guaranteed his
money if he can produce a picture of the purchaser in the event of a disputed
transaction.

By comparison, moving to biometrics has a lot of problems:

(1)	the tradeoff between the fraud rate and the insult rate poses all sorts
	of management problems, of the type which banks are not good at solving
	(as marketing and security are two different departments). If the 
	marketing department demands (and gets) parameter settings which give 
	an insult rate of 1 in 100,000, then this might well mean a fraud rate of
	1 in 10. An acceptable fraud rate, on the other hand, may insult so 
	many customers that the marketing general manager will have the system
	taken out (and the computer security manager fired).

(2)	a substantial minority of people have problems with biometrics because
	the measured feature is more than usually variable in their case. The
	voice recognition community call these people `goats'. No doubt the
	same problem exists for signature dynamics. What customer will put up
	with being told he's a goat? And what bank will buy a system which makes 
	it dump 10% of its customers?

(3)	cost - not just paying IBM for the tablets, but developing entirely new
	systems to drive them. Adding video cameras to existing ATMs or POS
	terminals doesn't affect your systems at all: you get one cassette per 
	day per device and you keep them in a big rack in the cupboard for 90
	days before reusing them. No programming is required, and only a minor
	change to the procedure manual.

(4)	there is not a lot of experience at using biometrics; and their 
	admissibility as evidence has still to be tested, unlike that of 
	videotape or film.

(4)	social factors: for example, voice recognition based banking systems 
	have been developed in a number of countries and have all failed because
	customers don't like them. Also, Nixdorf sold some fingerprint based 
	systems in India (where illiterate people commonly use thumbprints to 
	authorise bank transactions) but came to the conclusion that it was a 
	waste of time pursing this line in Europe because of the criminal 
	associations which most people have with fingerprints.

|> On the subject of fingerprint and hand geometry readers...  I've heard that
|> some manufacturers have infrared sensors to try and determine if the finger
|> or hand is alive.  I don't know how well they work, but I'm sure it's not too
|> difficult to stop dead body parts or plastic replicas. 

Again, the fear that a mugger may remove one's finger may be irrational, but
that's quite irrelevant.

(5)	you only need one case where a mugger actually does remove a customer's
	finger to try it out on the ATM and your system's dead. So is the
	manufacturer if it happens in California and the victim gets an award 
	of punitive damages

(6)	even if this never happens, the fear that it might do could be lethal
	to public acceptance of the system

In short, I remain to be convinced,


Ross
