Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!usc!howland.reston.ans.net!paladin.american.edu!darwin.sura.net!guvax.acc.georgetown.edu!denning
From: denning@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Subject: Re: Documentation wanted and Dorothy Denning (Again!)
Message-ID: <1993Mar22.182226.2923@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu>
Date: 22 Mar 93 18:22:25 -0500
References: <1993Mar18.234156.24870@wdl.loral.com> <TED.93Mar18224233@lole.nmsu.edu>  <C4AGLu.Ix7@dcs.ed.ac.uk>
Distribution: world
Organization: Georgetown University
Lines: 77
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:14394 alt.security.pgp:2051

I'd like to clarify a few of the statements that have been made about 
me.  I have not been reading the newsgroup and just caught the past
few days of messages, so I can only comment on what I perceive to
be the thread based on the last few posts.

I submitted the paper to CACM some time in October.  The paper was 
submitted with the understanding that it would be presented in debate
format.  This means that it is treated like a viewpoint rather than a
technical contribution and it is not refereed.  Instead, it is sent
to a number of people who are invited to join the debate and submit
commentaries.  I then write a final rebuttal.  I had done this once
before with the CACM, namely in March 1991, with the Neidorf paper.
The ACM was pleased with the '91 issue and accepted my proposal.  At
the time, they did not commit to a publication date.  When I submitted
the proposal, I also gave them a list of the people who at that time
were my strongest critics.  I thought it only fair that their side
be presented since the purpose of my article was NOT to present all 
sides.  This was to be a debate.

Meanwhile, the discussion erupted on sci.crypt.  Most of that 
discussion seems to have taken place in November.  After that 
discussion had gotten going, I asked ACM if I could send them a 
revised paper since I thought it important to at least say something
about some of the issues that had come up.  They agreed, but 
meanwhile selected the March issue for publication
with the goal of making it available at Computers, Freedom, and 
Privacy, since there was to be (and was) a session on the topic,
and I along with several others were scheduled to speak in the session.
Thus, we quickly ran up against publication deadlines, and I did the 
best I could addressing the issues I had time for.
The final version was given to them on November 30.
It then went to the commentators.  I had about a week from the time
the commentaries were sent in to write my rebuttal; in one case,
I had only one day.  Before I got the commentaries, I thought
I might weave more of the sci.crypt discussion into my final
rebuttal, but after getting the commentaries, I saw that I had
my hands full with that; also, we were exceeding the page limits
(we ran over as it was).  

My purpose in writing the article was to argue in support of the
DT proposal and to OPEN UP a discussion about the possibility of 
regulating crypto.  I stated this in the opening of my article.  In
the opening of the Crypto section, I confirmed this by saying
"This section explores the possibility of regulating cryptography
use."  Finally, in the conclusions, I wrote "Although government
regulation of cryptography may be somewhat cumbersome and subject
to invasion, we should give it full consideration."  I never intended
my article to be a comprehensive treatment of the crypto issues, but
rather an introduction -- a starting point for further study and 
debate.  It is true that I believe the escrowed key idea
is worth investigating further.

Most of the arguments that were made in this discussion group were
not technical but rather political.  I'd say the biggest argument
was "You can't trust the government.  QED."  Another was "criminals
won't comply.  QED".  I don't accept either of these as "QED" and
attempted to say something about them both (e.g., the new technologies
coupled with say split keys help protect against government abuses
and COTS products can have compliance built in), but certainly much
more could be said.  Many of the arguments were also personal:
"Denning, you're naive; you forgot your history (Hoover, Watergate,
King, CISPES, COINTELPRO, etc.), you believe your
friends in the government too much; you're well-intentioned, but
misguided, etc. etc."  It was not appropriate
to address these personal attacks in the CACM, even those that
came from the commentators.

If you believe that certain issues were not adequately addressed,
then I recommend that you send a letter to CACM and argue your point.  
However, do so fast (today!), because they will be selecting the letters 
that I am to respond to very shortly.

To those of you who defended me in this discussion, you have my
sincere appreciation.  

Dorothy Denning
denning@cs.georgetown.edu
