Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!pipex!marble.uknet.ac.uk!uknet!pavo.csi.cam.ac.uk!rja14
From: rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (Ross Anderson)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security
Subject: Crypto and public policy
Message-ID: <1993Mar25.144607.15812@infodev.cam.ac.uk>
Date: 25 Mar 93 14:46:07 GMT
Sender: news@infodev.cam.ac.uk (USENET news)
Organization: U of Cambridge Computer Lab, UK
Lines: 34
Nntp-Posting-Host: ely.cl.cam.ac.uk
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:14482 alt.security:9690

Three interesting snippets from today's `Financial Times'. Two are bad news for
crypto suppliers:

(1)     Parliament has published a draft document on privacy. If passed into
        law, it will make eavesdropping a criminal offence. No doubt the spooks
        will then argue that there is no need for civilian cryptology

(2)     The largest credit card issuer (Barclays) announced that the proportion
        of credit card purchases for which telephone authorisation is required
        will be raised from the current 20% to 50% by 1996. They will also 
	launch (on April 1st [!]) an online expert system to detect fraud on
        transactions authorised in this way (many banks see online authorisation
        as an alternative to investing in cryptology for fraud control in
        point-of-sale applications)

And the third is not quite bad news:

(3)     Villains have cracked the code used to register mobile phones, and are
        now selling stolen phones which have been altered so that calls are
        billed to someone else's number. Street price is said to be \pounds 260

If this is true, then what effect will it have on government efforts to
emasculate the security of the next generation digital phones? If keys are
limited to 40 bits, won't the crooks be able to do a keysearch just as easily 
as the spooks?

It would be a lot better if the relevant technical standards were published.
This would probably stop foul-ups like this from happening in the first place,
and thus save the phone companies (and their customers) a lot of money.

Perhaps this will be a more compelling argument than the public interest one of 
informed discussion on matters affecting our privacy,

Ross
