Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!wupost!uunet!pipex!demon!gtoal.com!gtoal
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
From: gtoal@gtoal.com (Graham Toal)
Subject: Re: Cracking RSA?
Date: Fri, 26 Mar 1993 05:53:31 +0000
Message-ID: <9303260553.AA17795@pizzabox.demon.co.uk>
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk
Lines: 56

: From: bs@gauss.mitre.org (Robert D. Silverman)
:  
: Noone factors big primes. It is a waste of time. That is why they are called
: *primes*.

Yes, yes, very amusing; we've had that joke already.  Anyway I was clearly
talking about attempts to factor pseudo-primes that may or may not have
really been prime.

: >of these 'probably' prime numbers and tried to factor them, to get
:  
: No, because such an exercize would be pointless. One can PROVE that
: 256 bit numbers are prime using (essentially) the Cohen-Lenstra
: algorithm in just a few minutes on any Sparcstation.

This is what I have trouble understanding.  OK, I admit it, I'm thick, I
don't follow the maths, and you're probably frustrated at explaining
something you see as self-evident; but I just don't trust something that
says a number is prime if it can't actually perform the factorisation
in the cases where it isn't. [Clearly they can't or they'd be able to
factorise RSA products]

OK, let me reverse my 'engineering test' suggestion so that it doesn't
involve superhuman effort in factorising large numbers.  Let's *start off*
with two large known primes, and multiply them together.  I'll even let
you pick the known primes with your clever testing methods if you like.

If we take pairs of 128-bit primes and multiply them together, and feed
the results through these primality algorithms, what percentage of
products will be flagged as apparently prime?  You appear to be saying
0% for the Cohen-Lenstra algorithm, and an *extremely* small percentage
for the other probabilistic algorithms.

Would you humour me please (if it isn't too big a job) and run a few
hundred thousand products of large primes through pgp's test and
tell us the results please?  Say, more tests than there are ever likely
to be pgp users out there...  That would make me feel much more secure
about pgp's prime number testing.

I hope you're not tired of me harping on about this; it's just the only
bit of pgp that I can't verify for myself and a practical confirmation
of the theory would help set my mind at ease.

Thanks

Graham
-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
Version: 2.0

mQCNAisUfzAAAAEEAKZDftLWG/dEWepbUZ1qC38p2vtFNx+C+O1UMP1WycYnTp9K
lOv4DfLFsB37Vnp3wWmfKCRnR3H9fb+icNTHqXCj/UaQ3h3MYuak9l8ZXBEnwMUv
bLzCRHjc9n2drFr4xxdewCaRFGjuLXm78kSyEW3CBpDfX+Hqa3CRCOmNcN2dAAUR
tB1HcmFoYW0gVG9hbCA8Z3RvYWxAZ3RvYWwuY29tPg==
=J45U
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----

