Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!agate!ames!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!grady
From: grady@netcom.com (Grady Ward)
Subject: Seeding PGP 2.2 to your BBS
Message-ID: <gradyC4K7tC.B8y@netcom.com>
Organization: Netcom - Online Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL6]
Date: Sat, 27 Mar 1993 18:10:24 GMT
Lines: 33

Since most of us live in widely-separated places, it might really              
help broaden the popular support and use of PGP by distributing it             
to your local BBS.  Most of these people are disjoint from Unix                
people with Internet connections and so would welcome access to                
whatever versions and platforms of PGP you can upload.                         
                                                                 
I've just finished uploading the MSDOS, Mac, and Unix (with source)
versions to the local rural BBS.  If many people did the same for  
their areas it is hard to imagine how PGP could ever be "stamped out".

Lists of BBS for your area code are available from your favorite
platform archive site.
                                                    
Not negligibly, many more people exposed to and using PGP means that
many more eyes and fingers finding bugs, suggesting patches and     
improvments and generally playing with the PGP concept.           
                                                                  
Apple Computer is reputed to be readying the release of their
new "cyclone" computers during the next month or so.  This
top-end line of machines has been said to incorporate licensed      
RSA technology at the operating system level.  With the usual                  
marketing hoopla this will mean that security in general but                   
specifically RSA and public key technologies will get a                        
big public push.                                                               
                                                                               
It would be great if at the time of this marketing blitz                       
people could turn to their local bbs and satisfy their                         
curiosity about RSA and public keys with PGP 2.2...

                            
-- 
grady@netcom.com  2EF221 / 15 E2 AD D3 D1 C6 F3 FC  58 AC F7 3D 4F 01 1E 2F

