Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!wupost!uunet!pipex!bnr.co.uk!uknet!pavo.csi.cam.ac.uk!rja14
From: rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (Ross Anderson)
Newsgroups: alt.security,sci.crypt,comp.security.misc
Subject: New Identification Technique
Message-ID: <1993Mar29.173644.13966@infodev.cam.ac.uk>
Date: 29 Mar 93 17:36:44 GMT
Sender: news@infodev.cam.ac.uk (USENET news)
Organization: U of Cambridge Computer Lab, UK
Lines: 44
Nntp-Posting-Host: ely.cl.cam.ac.uk
Xref: msuinfo alt.security:9741 sci.crypt:14613 comp.security.misc:3157

A new way to identify people was unveiled on the popular science programme 
`Tomorrow's World' here in Britain. It was a short snippet at the end of the 
broadcast and I didn't catch whose idea it was. In fact, if the inventor is 
reading this, please get in touch!

The gist is that instead of having a password such as the four-digit PIN which 
you enter in an ATM, you get nine faces displayed, of which eight have been 
chosen at random from a large database and one is of a person known to you, whom
you have to spot. The process is repeated four times (or more for high security).

I was quite impressed by the demonstration, though it seems in retrospect that 
it could be a hassle to enrol  - you might have to ransack a lot of family
albums to get photos of a hundred faces. However this will become easier once 
multimedia takes off, as you will then be able to put together a portfolio 
from your video mail archive. 

It might turn out to be an `appropriate technology' for multimedia, just as 
passwords were the appropriate technology for time sharing systems of the last 
two decades or so.

Face recognition seems to be relatively immune to advances in the level of 
computing power available to opponents - I understand from colleagues working 
in multimedia that it is something which wetware does very, very much better 
than software, and this is expected to continue until we get very much better 
algorithms than at present.

On the other hand, an opponent might have enough networking power to monitor 
all your videomail, so this might need to be encrypted anyway (in which case we
will probably need faster algorithms than DES). Also, if you lead an 
institutionalised life, then your circle of friends would be well known and so 
put you at risk. Even then, the risk could probably be limited by such tricks
as including obscure family members and setting time limits.

You could also use a changing selection from the set of celebrities (in which
case you obviously have to see to it that non-selected celebs also appear on 
screen). In fact, there's quite a lot of play in how such a system gets 
implemented, and no doubt if it does become the norm we will have to go up a 
fairly long learning curve.

Comments? Ideas?



Ross Anderson
