Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!wupost!uunet!digex.com!digex.com!not-for-mail
From: pcw@access.digex.com (Peter Wayner)
Newsgroups: alt.security,sci.crypt,comp.security.misc
Subject: Re: New Identification Technique
Date: 29 Mar 1993 14:35:31 -0500
Organization: Express Access Online Communications, Greenbelt, MD USA
Lines: 43
Message-ID: <1p7j23$sae@access.digex.com>
References: <1993Mar29.173644.13966@infodev.cam.ac.uk>
NNTP-Posting-Host: access.digex.com
Xref: msuinfo alt.security:9745 sci.crypt:14624 comp.security.misc:3163

rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (Ross Anderson) writes:

>A new way to identify people was unveiled on the popular science programme 
>`Tomorrow's World' here in Britain. It was a short snippet at the end of the 
>broadcast and I didn't catch whose idea it was. In fact, if the inventor is 
>reading this, please get in touch!

>The gist is that instead of having a password such as the four-digit PIN which 
>you enter in an ATM, you get nine faces displayed, of which eight have been 
>chosen at random from a large database and one is of a person known to you, whom
>you have to spot. The process is repeated four times (or more for high security).

>I was quite impressed by the demonstration, though it seems in retrospect that 
>it could be a hassle to enrol  - you might have to ransack a lot of family
>albums to get photos of a hundred faces. However this will become easier once 
>multimedia takes off, as you will then be able to put together a portfolio 
>from your video mail archive. 

Shoulder surfing would require that the number of people in this data
bank would be rather large. Although many of us know many people, we 
often only have photographs of our close friends and our family. 100 
is a pretty large number to dig up. 

I can also think of plenty of little, human scale problems like:

1) You break up with your main squeeze and start dating another. 
There could be some jealous moments as the old ex appears on the 
screen as you both stop at the cash machine on the way to a date. 

2) What if the eight are choosen from a selection of people from
other customer's "friends and family?" In a small town like Ithaca
(where I recently did time), the circles of friends get pretty 
interlocked. I might not have known Bob when I got the account,
but I met him afterwards. It becomes trying to remember the 100
pictures that are classified as your friends.

3) One solution might be to seed the databank
with millions of extras. But what happens in a small towns
where people literally know everyone? I can use any card in town  just
by selecting the one face on the screen that I recognize. The
others must be foreigners.

-Peter
