From van-bc!cs.ubc.ca!destroyer!caen!sdd.hp.com!swrinde!cs.utexas.edu!uwm.edu!linac!att!ucbvax!CSL.SRI.COM!risks Thu Feb 25 12:25:08 PST 1993
Article: 835 of comp.risks
Path: van-bc!cs.ubc.ca!destroyer!caen!sdd.hp.com!swrinde!cs.utexas.edu!uwm.edu!linac!att!ucbvax!CSL.SRI.COM!risks
From: risks@CSL.SRI.COM (RISKS Forum)
Newsgroups: comp.risks
Subject: RISKS DIGEST 14.34
Message-ID: <CMM.0.90.1.730419868.risks@chiron.csl.sri.com>
Date: 22 Feb 93 22:24:28 GMT
Sender: daemon@ucbvax.BERKELEY.EDU
Reply-To: risks@csl.sri.com
Distribution: world
Organization: The Internet
Lines: 673
Approved: risks@csl.sri.com

RISKS-LIST: RISKS-FORUM Digest  Monday 22 February 1993  Volume 14 : Issue 34

        FORUM ON RISKS TO THE PUBLIC IN COMPUTERS AND RELATED SYSTEMS 
   ACM Committee on Computers and Public Policy, Peter G. Neumann, moderator

  Contents:
And You thought Your Computer Chat Was Private (Marty Leisner)
_Friendly Spies_ (Peter Wayner)
The "Information America" service (Brian Randell)
"Telephone Service Cut Off" (Lin Zucconi)
Computer delays response to fatal fire (Lauren Wiener)
Tapping the new digital car phone systems (John W. Sinteur)
A quick request for opinions (Fred Cohen)
London Ambulance Service (Brian Randell)
DCCA-4 Call for Papers (Teresa Lunt)
Technology and Society, Call for Papers (William J. Kelly)
Privacy Digests (PGN)

 The RISKS Forum is a moderated digest discussing risks; comp.risks is its 
 Usenet counterpart.  Undigestifiers are available throughout the Internet,
 but not from RISKS.  Contributions should be relevant, sound, in good taste
 good taste, objective, coherent, concise, and nonrepetitious.  Diversity is
 welcome.  CONTRIBUTIONS to RISKS@CSL.SRI.COM, with appropriate, substantive 
 "Subject:" line.  Others may be ignored!  Contributions will not be ACKed.  
 The load is too great.  **PLEASE** INCLUDE YOUR NAME & INTERNET FROM: ADDRESS,
 especially .UUCP folks.  REQUESTS please to RISKS-Request@CSL.SRI.COM.     

 Vol i issue j, type "FTP CRVAX.SRI.COM<CR>login anonymous<CR>AnyNonNullPW<CR>
 CD RISKS:<CR>GET RISKS-i.j<CR>" (where i=1 to 14, j always TWO digits).  Vol i
 summaries in j=00; "dir risks-*.*<CR>" gives directory; "bye<CR>" logs out.
 The COLON in "CD RISKS:" is essential.  "CRVAX.SRI.COM" = "128.18.10.1".
 <CR>=CarriageReturn; FTPs may differ; UNIX prompts for username, password.

 For information regarding delivery of RISKS by FAX, phone 310-455-9300
 (or send FAX to RISKS at 310-455-2364, or EMail to risks-fax@cv.vortex.com).

 ALL CONTRIBUTIONS CONSIDERED AS PERSONAL COMMENTS; USUAL DISCLAIMERS APPLY.
 Relevant contributions may appear in the RISKS section of regular issues
 of ACM SIGSOFT's SOFTWARE ENGINEERING NOTES, unless you state otherwise.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: 	Sat, 13 Feb 1993 14:06:39 PST
From: leisner@eso.mc.xerox.com (Marty Leisner 71348 )
Subject: And You thought Your Computer Chat Was Private

In the February 7, 1993 NY Times (sunday) on page 32 they had an article
(about 10 column inches) detailing privacy issues with email.

They talked about Oliver North's message in 1986 to his aide Ronald Sable:

"Oh Lord, I lost the slip and broke one of the high heels.   Forgive please.  
Will return the wig Monday".

The article quotes Paul Saffo (Institute for the Future) talking about "we
have yet to establish the conventions for e-mail).

marty   leisner@eso.mc.xerox.com   leisner.henr801c@xerox.com 
Member of the League for Programming Freedom

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 22 Feb 1993 11:12:37 -0500
From: Peter Wayner <pcw@access.digex.com>
Subject:  _Friendly Spies_

Fans of encryption and those who merely fan the fires of debate about
encryption's inherent threat/value will want to dig up Peter Schweitzer's new
book _Friendly Spies_ just published by Atlantic Monthly Press. He includes
many different details about covert intelligence operations directed against
US corporations by cold war allies. Time and time again he says, foreign
governments conspire with foreign companies to steal US technology and
economic secrets.

He mentions that France and Germany and many other countries require US
Companies to "register" the encryption key for reasons of national security.
All of the American transmissions are monitored and the data is passed on to
the local competitors.  Companies like 	IBM finally began to routinely
transmit false information to their French subsidiary just to thwart the
French Secret Service and by transitive property of economic nationalism,
French computer companies.

The lessons? Key registration in the world hurts American corporations.
Cryptography protects the creators and thwarts those who seek to copy
innovation.

-Peter Wayner

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 17 Feb 93 12:18:22 GMT
From: Brian.Randell@newcastle.ac.uk
Subject: The "Information America" service

A colleague has just shown me an article about an online service called
"Information America". The article is (possibly justifiably) alarmist in tone
- and I cannot vouch for its factual accuracy. The article appeared in issue 8
of a (strange, to me at least) magazine called Mondo 2000, published some time
in 1992 - the publisher's address is given as PO Box 1071, Berkeley, CA.

Let me say no more about the article or the magazine, but just provide
soc.roots/ROOTS-L readers some illustrative quotes from it:

"BIG BROTHER ISN'T DEAD, HE'S JUST SUBCONTRACTING

If you have a modem, a home computer and can afford $95 an hour fees you too
can access Information America's online computer database, cross indexing the
Postal Service's National Change of Address file (NCOA), major publisher and
direct marketing companies' client information, birth records, drivers'
license records, phone books, voter registrations, records from up to 49
governmental agencies, and more. Information America boasts up to date
information on over 111 million Americans, 80 million households, and 61
million telephones.

If you are not scared yet you should be. Because complete strangers can
find out where you live, tracing you through extensive relocations even if
they have only a last name, or a state, an old address or telephone number.
....
Not until recently has information like this been commercially available in
a single database, specifically with law enforcement, private
investigators, bounty hunters and lawyers in mind. Information America is
the first accessible service to make use of previously collected data for
the express purpose of providing up-to-date whereabouts and personal
profiles of as many Americans as possible.
....
People finder is made up of four services: SKIP TRACER, TELEPHONE TRACKER,
PERSON LOCATOR and PEOPLE FINDER MULTITRACK
.....
SKIP TRACER traces a person's moves or verifies the current address when
all you have is an old address. You will enter the person's name, street
number, street name, and either the zip code or the city/state. If your
subject is in IA's files a profile will be provided that includes the
address he moved to (or current address), phone number, length of
residence, and more. You may also request a list of ten of the person's
neighbours. A profile on the current resident at your subject's old address
and up to ten neighbours there may also be available.
....
TELEPHONE TRACKER tracks down the owner of a telephone number... If a match
is found, you may look at a profile of that individual/residence and a
listing of up to ten neighbours.
....
PERSON LOCATOR helps you locate a person when specific address information
is not available. Enter the person's name and indicate whether you wish to
conduct a search by city, state(s), zip or nationwide. Person Locator will
compile a list (up to 300 names for nationwide and up to 100 names for
individual state searches) that match the information entered..... When you
find the right name, you may request a profile and neighbour listing for
that individual.
.....
PEOPLE FINDER MULTITRACK helps you find multiple people during one search.
Search results are available the following business day.
....
IA's clients are mostly lawyers and paralegals working at large legal
firms, but the FBI is also a major IA client.
....
IA has existed for at least three and a half years, but has remained
relatively unknown to the public.
....
To market its database services, IA seems to have adopted a grass-roots
kind of approach. IA employs liaison in major metropolitan cities whose job
it is to research and contact prospective clients lawyers, for example. I
am unaware of any advertising in specialist journals.
...."

Discussions of the potential dangers of a service like this would be better
addressed to the splendid Usenet newsgroup comp.risks - to which my colleague
is addressing a separate message about Information America.  However it seems
to me that the service might be of legitimate interest to a number of
soc.roots/ROOTS-L readers (for example, those carrying out aextensive "one-name
studies"), hence my posting this message.   Brian Randell

PS I reiterate - I have no personal knowledge of Information America, and
cannot vouch for the accuracy or fairness of the Mondo 200 article from which
I have quoted.

Dept. of Computing Science, University of Newcastle, Newcastle upon Tyne,
NE1 7RU, UK  Brian.Randell@newcastle.ac.uk   PHONE = +44 91 222 7923

------------------------------

Date: 18 Feb 1993 09:06:10 U
From: "Lin Zucconi" <Lin_Zucconi@lccmail.ocf.llnl.gov>
Subject: "Telephone Service Cut Off"

The Valley Times (Feb.18) reported that telephone service was cut off for more
than 4 hours to about 37,000 phone lines in Livermore, CA including "911" and
operator "O" lines. The article said that "the significance (of the
malfunction) was in having three prefixes that can't reach emergency phone
lines.... The phone company [Pacific Bell] was stymied in correcting the
problem because diagnostic tests of the equipment told technicians that there
was no problem....Technicians eventually located the problem in a call
processor computer tape and replaced the malfunctioning tape." Luckily for
those of us that live here, this is a relatively low crime area and no serious
crimes occurred during the outage. Some banks compensated by letting in only a
few customers at a time because they were concerned that their alarm systems
wouldn't be able to call police.

------------------------------
 
Date: Sat, 20 Feb 93 10:49:25 -0800
From: Lauren Wiener <lauren@reed.edu>
Subject: Computer delays response to fatal fire

>From the Oregonian, Saturday, Feb. 20, 1993, p.B1:

"Computer delays response to fatal Bonny Slope fire", by James Mayer

It takes seven minutes for the alarm to reach Tualatin Valley Fire & Rescue
because of a glitch that sends it to the office that dispatches Portland Fire
Bureau units instead of to the proper agency in Washington County

[BACKGROUND: Multnomah County is the county that contains the City of Portland.
Suburban Washington County adjoins it to the west.  Multnomah County is oddly
shaped, and small slices of it here and there are served by suburban agencies
instead of the corresponding Portland agency.  I live in one of those places,
and when I moved into my present house in 1980 it took the telephone company
two days to find me and sort out who was responsible for hooking up my
telephone service.  Which fortunately was not an emergency.]

A computer error added seven minutes to the time it took firefighters to reach
a 68-year-old woman trapped in her burning Bonny Slope home last week.

Mildred Smith died of smoke inhalation suffered in a pre-dawn Feb. 12 blaze at
her home at 12401 NW Thompson Rd.

A neighbor telephoned 9-1-1 to report the fire at 2:40 AM, but firefighters
from Tualatin Valley Fire & Rescue were not dispatched until 2:47 AM because a
computer error sent the original call to the wrong place.

Eugene Jacobus, Washington County deputy medical examiner, said it would be
hard to determine whether the dispatching delay made a fatal difference.
Firefighters were also delayed by steel-bar security doors when they reached
the remote house north of Cedar Mill, 5 and 1/2 minutes after finally getting
the call for help.

"It's really hard to say, but certainly a delay of that magnitude is going to
make a difference, Jacobus said.  "You can be relatively sure that any delay,
whether two or seven minutes, is going to rob an individual of some ability to
be resuscitated."

By Friday, officials had traced the problem to the computerized telephone
switching system at Portland's 9-1-1 center on Kelly Butte.


Fire and US West Communications officials say a "reloading" of some computer
software by US West inadvertently changed the way the 9-1-1 system routed calls
for a very small number of callers.

"We're still looking to find out how that happened," said Jim Haynes, US West
spokesman.

<stuff about previous problems with the system deleted>

Here's what happened in the latest incident, as pieced together from
interviews and official reports:

At 2:40 AM, Jack Gilbert, of 12229 NW Hillar Lane, called 9-1-1 to report what
he first thought was a brush fire in the area of the NW Thompson Road home,
about 100 yards away.

The call was answered at Kelly Butte, because the Gilbert's home is just
inside the Multnomah County line.

On the enhanced 9-1-1 computer screen, the dispatcher could see that
Washington County Consolidated Communication Agency was the appropriate
dispatching agency and Tualatin Valley Fire & Rescue was the appropriate fire
department.

About four seconds later, the dispatcher hit a key that is supposed to route
the call automatically to the right place.

But, in this case, it didn't work.  Although the 9-1-1 operator didn't know
it, the call instead went to Portland's Fire Alarm Dispatch office, which
dispatches Portland Fire Bureau units.

Dispatchers there looked at the address and realized it was a Washington
County call.  At 2:44 AM Portland fire dispatchers called the Washington
County 9-1-1 center.

But for reasons that are unclear, Washington County dispatchers looked for
"1229" Hillar Road, instead of "12229" for some time without finding it in
their computers, finally kicking it back to Portland under the belief that it
must be a Portland address.

About two minutes later, Portland Fire called Washington County again.  This
time, the right, five-digit address was exchanged.

Finally, at 2:47 AM, Tualatin Valley Fire & Rescue got the call.

At almost the exact moment, seven minutes after the first call, Smith herself
called 9-1-1 from inside her home.  The same thing happened.  The Kelly Butte
dispatcher hit the key to route the call, and it went to Portland Fire Alarm
Dispatch instead of Washington County.

About a minute after that, Gilbert called again, this time to report that the
fire was in the house. By this time, firefighters were on the way.

It took the first company, coming from kaiser Road in the Oak Hills area, 5
and 1/2 minutes to get there.

The second unti arrived two minutes after that.

Firefighters could hear 73-year-old Robert Smith pounding on the security
door, trying to get out.

His wife, by that time, however, was silent.  Firefighters broke a window to
get inside.

Robert Smith suffered smoke inhalation, but he survived. Mildred Smith died 12
hours later.

Larry Hatch, assistant director of the washington County 9-1-1 center,
acknowledged that confusion about the address added minutes to the call, but
none of that would have happened without the initial switching error.

Gary Schrader, director of Portland's Bureau of Emergency Communications,
which runs the Kelly Butte center, said officials originally thought the
dispatcher had made a mistake.

The telephone problem was discovered and corrected on Monday.

The telephone company had done a system "reload" Jan. 30 and that was what
resulted in the switch sending calls in the wrong direction, Haynes said.

Schrader said the error was not discovered because of the low volume of calls
from people who live in Multnomah County but, like the Smiths, are served by
an outside fire agency.

END Oregonian article

COMMENT:  The story doesn't say why "reloading" produces erroneous behavior.
Maybe US West doesn't know, at this point?

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 22 Feb 1993 12:14:53 -0800
From: fourcnl!sinteur@relay.nluug.nl (John W. Sinteur)
Subject: Tapping the new digital car phone systems

The following appeared in the Automatiseringsgids in The Netherlands last
week. The Automatiseringsgids is a weekly newpaper-like magazine on
information technology in the Netherlands. My comments are in [... -JS] I
tried to translate literally, any mistakes are mine, but not intented as such.
The author of the article gave me permission to send RISKS a translated
version of his article. ...

I think most comments on what's in the article are already made before, I just
wanted to let you know what's happening over here in Europe...  -John


GSM cannot be tapped.   (Automatiseringsgids, 19 Feb 93)

The Ministry of Justice is negotiating with PTT Telecom to figure out which
way Justice, Police and Security Services can listen in on subscribers of the
new digital car phone system (GSM). The government is now discussing the
option of tapping conversations at the central PTT switchboards. [PTT Telecom
is the sole provider of telecom infrastructure in the Netherlands -JS]

GSM is protected by personal subscriber smart-cards and complex algorithms,
well enough to stop professional eaves-droppers. Security officials fear
that this will be welcomed by criminal organisations, who can communicate
through this system without fear of being tapped.

[The article does not mention exactly which 'algorithms'. Public key
perhaps? If anyone really knows, please tell us -JS]

Since GSM will be used throughout Europe, it is especially useful for
criminals operating internationally.

Secret and Police Services in Europe are trying to convince their Ministries
of Internal Affairs of the need to force GSM providers to adapt their services
to make tapping possible. The German government is talking to two GSM
providers, DBP Telekom and Mannesmann/PacTel, to persuade them to cooperate
and implement a tapping option. British Telecom and Vodafone in Great Britain
are also discussing this problem with the government.  [GSM] providers are
thinking about this problem and are trying to find a solution for all of
Europe.

[end of article]

[  sinteur@fourc.nl  John W. Sinteur, 2:512/48 (fidonet)  ]
[   Snail: Jade str 28, 2332 RT Leiden, The Netherlands   ]

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 12 Feb 93 19:15:43 -0500
From: fc@turing.duq.edu (Fred Cohen)
Subject: A quick request for opinions

I am writing a book about artificial life, and have some examples of programs
that automate distribution of software in LANs, implement distributed
databases, etc.  They are all written in the Unix shell, and involve a few
lines of code that automatically copy the programs between machines to
automate the distribution process.  It has come to my attention that there may
be substantial objection to this idea and I am asking people in this forum for
their opinion.

Each program includes explicit safeties to prevent copying to machines where
operation is not authorized by the root, and they are designed not to spread
outside of particular directories.  The code is very obvious (only a few lines
of shell script after all), and the book includes explicit warnings not to
remove safeties or use on any machine where you don't have permission.

Questions:

1 - why not provide this in the book?
2 - what risks do you see in it?
3 - are you an admin or a user?
4 - do you think there is value in including these examples?
5 - do you think the advantages of examples outweigh any risks?
6 - do you think that the versions that optimize their own behavior by
      `evolving' improved forms should not be included - if not why not?

Please Email me your responses ASAP, as the book goes to press in a few weeks.
Also, if you DO NOT want your comments included in the book (no names will be
used) tell me.  Otherwise, I will feel free to include any comments I find
particularly enlightening.  FC

------------------------------

Date: Fri, 19 Feb 93 12:55:43 GMT
From: Brian.Randell@newcastle.ac.uk
Subject: London Ambulance Service

The London Ambulance Service Crisis reported to RISKS earlier has been absent
from the UK press for a while, but now it seems likely to burst forth again.
The attached article is reprinted in its entirety from (UK) Computer Weekly,
18 Feb, 1993.  Cheers.  Brian Randell

Report to confirm (pounds)1m 999 systems blunder   (by David Evans)

LONDON Ambulance Service made a fatal blunder when it bought a (pounds)1m
untested computer system to handle 999 calls, an official inquiry will reveal
next week.  Union leaders have already blamed the system for contributing to
the deaths of at least four patients.

Around 800,000 emergency calls are handled by the capital's ambulance
service each year. But after a spate of incidents, in which calls were lost
and emergency victims suffered long delays before ambulances arrived, the
system was abandoned.

Now an official report into the fiasco, demanded by health secretary
Virginia Bottomley, is expected to be scathing in its criticism.

Since last November an independent panel has been looking at the circumstances
surrounding the purchase of the system, bought when a previous computer-aided
dispatch module crashed.  Yet after just a few months of use the replacement
was similarly suffering from calldata overload.

Questions raised by the report will include why Aldershot-based Systems
Options was chosen as the main soft-ware supplier when it had no previous
experience in providing dispatch systems to the ambulance sector. 

Jim Pedroza, Systems Options' founder, has consistently refused to talk to the
press. His networked solution based on Apricot workstations and servers
contrasts markedly with mini-based systems favoured by other emergency
services.

According to sources working close to the inquiry team, one conclusion is
that a replacement computer-aided dispatch system will now take years,
rather than months, to implement. It will also confirm that the Systems
Options solution is wholly unfit for the task.

Said one London ambulance source: "What we're talking about here is an
official stamp of condemnation. Not enough attention was paid to the project,
and the lack of expertise in choosing the system was completely unacceptable."

The outcome of the report has been delayed to allow for the publication
this week of the Tomlinson report on London hospitals.

Since the system was ditched, the service's chief John Wilby has resigned and
control room staff have reverted to manual methods of dispatching crews.

Dept. of Computing Science, University of Newcastle, Newcastle upon Tyne,
NE1 7RU, UK  Brian.Randell@newcastle.ac.uk   PHONE = +44 91 222 7923

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 22 Feb 93 10:07:56 -0800
From: Teresa Lunt <lunt@csl.sri.com>
Subject: DCCA-4 Call for Papers

Below is the Call for Papers for the 4th IFIP Working Conference on Dependable
Computing for Critical Applications.  The conference aims to promote research
that considers different aspects of dependability, including security, safety,
reliability, and availability, in a common framework, with emphasis on high
assurance.

Call for Papers: 

4th IFIP Working Conference on Dependable Computing for Critical Applications
January 4-6, 1994, Catamaran Resort Hotel, San Diego, California, USA 

Increasingly, individuals and organizations are becoming critically dependent
on sophisticated computing systems. In differing circumstances, this
dependency might for example center on the continuity of service received from
the computing system, the overall performance level achieved, the real-time
response rate provided, the extent to which catastrophic failures are avoided,
or confidentiality violations prevented. The notion of dependability, defined
as the trustworthiness of computer service such that reliance can justifiably
be placed on this service, enables these various concerns to be subsumed
within a single conceptual framework with reliability, availability, safety
and security, for example, being treated as particular attributes of
dependability.

The fourth IFIP Working Conference on Dependable Computing for Critical
Applications aims at bringing together researchers and developers from
academia, industry and government for advancing the state of the art in
dependable computing. Papers are sought in all areas of dependable computing,
including but not limited to models, methods, algorithms, tools and practical
experience with specifying, designing, implementing, assessing, validating,
operating and maintaining dependable computing systems. Of particular, but not
exclusive, interest will be presentations which address combinations of
dependability attributes, e.g. safety and security or fault-tolerance and
safety, through studies of either a theoretical or an applied nature.

Submitting a Paper: Six copies (in English) of original work should be
submitted by 30 June 1993, to the Program co-Chair:

        Dr. Gerard Le Lann
        INRIA - Project REFLECS
        BP 105                          Tel:    +33.1.39635364
        78153 Le Chesnay Cedex          Fax:    +33.1.39635330
        France                          E-mail: Gerard.Le_Lann@inria.fr

Papers should be limited to 6000 words, full page figures being counted as 300
words. Each paper should include a short abstract and a list of keywords
indicating subject classification. Papers will be refereed and the final
choice will be made by the Program Committee. Notification of acceptance will
be sent by September 24 1993, and camera-ready copy will be due on November
12, 1993. A digest of papers will be available at the Conference, and
hardbound proceedings will be published after the Conference as a volume of
the Springer-Verlag series on Dependable Computing and Fault-Tolerant Systems.

Important Dates: 
        Submission deadline: June 30, 1993
        Acceptance notification: September 24, 1993
        Camera-ready copy due: November 12, 1993

General Chair
  F. Cristian, Univ. of California, USA

Program Cochairs
  G. Le Lann, INRIA, France
  T. Lunt, SRI International, USA

Local Arrangements/Publicity Chair
  K. Marzullo, Univ. of California, USA

Program Committee
  J. Abraham, U of Texas at Austin, USA
  A. Avizienis, UCLA, USA
  D. Bjoerner, UNUIIST, Macau
  R. Butler, NASA, USA
  A. Costes, LAAS-CNRS, France
  M-C. Gaudel, LRI, France
  V. Gligor, U of Maryland, USA
  L. Gong, SRI International, USA
  H. Ihara, Hitachi, Japan
  J. Jacob, Oxford U, UK 
  S. Jajodia, George Mason U, USA 
  J. Lala, CS Draper Lab, USA
  C. Landwehr, NRL, USA
  K. Levitt, U of California Davis, USA 
  C. Meadows, NRL, USA, 
  J. McLean, NRL, USA 
  M. Melliar-Smith, UCSB, USA
  J. Meyer, U of Michigan, USA
  J. Millen, MITRE, USA
  D. Parnas, McMaster U, Canada
  B. Randell, U of Newcastle upon Tyne, UK
  G. Rubino, IRISA, France
  R. Schlichting, U of Arizona, USA
  J. Stankovic, U of Massachusetts, USA
  P. Thevenod, LAAS-CNRS, France
  Y. Tohma, Tokyo Inst. of Technology, Japan

Ex-officio
  J-C. Laprie, LAAS-CNRS, France
  IFIP WG 10.4 Chair 

------------------------------

Date: Tuesday, 16 Feb 1993 20:08:04 EST
From: m16805@mwvm.mitre.ogr
Subject: Call for papers, Technology and Society

                         CALL FOR PAPERS
            TECHNOLOGY: WHOSE COSTS?...WHOSE BENEFITS?

Areas of Concentration: 
  Computers and Communications, Health Care, Energy and the Environment

 The International Symposium on Technology and Society 1993 (ISTAS '93)
 The International Symposium that links Technology and Social Effects

                            Sponsors:
The Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers Inc. (IEEE)
        Society for the Social Implications of Technology
             The IEEE National Capital Area Council
         The IEEE Technology Policy Conference Committee

               Washington DC  October 22-23, 1993

Technology is constantly changing the our world.  New ways of doing things
bring benefits undreamed-of just a few years ago.  These technologies also
have their price.  The costs can be financial, but also less freedom, more
risks, more stress.  How do we balance benefits and costs?  Do those who enjoy
the benefits bear their fair share of the costs?  How can we determine a fair
share?  If we can, and don't like the results, what do we change?  Is the
Government always the best way to change things?

ISTAS '93 invites significant contributions on these issues from a wide
spectrum of scholarly and concerned individuals. The contributions can be
papers, proposals for a session or panel of invited experts, or proposals for
"poster" or discussion sessions.  Please send a 100 word summary for papers or
a 1000 word proposal for sessions, to the General Chair

Dr. William J. Kelly, Attn. IEEE, MITRE Corporation, m/c Z568, 7525 Colshire
Drive, McLean, VA 22102 E-mail: wjkelly@mitre.org

         Deadline for Submission:       March 12, 1993
         Notification of Acceptance:   April 12, 1993
         Camera Ready Copy:              June 30, 1993

For  information call Jackie Hunter (703)-803-8701

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 22 Feb 1993 13:13:37 -0800
From: Peter G. Neumann <neumann@csl.sri.com>
Subject: Privacy Digests
 
Periodically I will remind you of TWO useful digests related to privacy,
both of which are siphoning off some of the material that would otherwise
appear in RISKS, but which should be read by those of you vitally interested in
privacy problems.  RISKS will continue to carry higher-level discussions in
which risks to privacy are a concern.

* The PRIVACY Forum Digest (PFD) is run by Lauren Weinstein.  He manages it as
  a rather selectively moderated digest, somewhat akin to RISKS; it spans the
  full range of both technological and non-technological privacy-related issues
  (with an emphasis on the former).  For information regarding the PRIVACY
  Forum, please send the exact line:

information privacy

  as the BODY of a message to "privacy-request@cv.vortex.com"; you will receive
  a response from an automated listserv system.  To submit contributions,
  send to "privacy@cv.vortex.com".

* The Computer PRIVACY Digest (CPD) (formerly the Telecom Privacy digest) is
  run by Dennis G. Rears.  It is gatewayed to the USENET newsgroup
  comp.society.privacy.  It is a relatively open (i.e., less tightly moderated)
  forum, and was established to provide a forum for discussion on the
  effect of technology on privacy.  All too often technology is way ahead of
  the law and society as it presents us with new devices and applications.
  Technology can enhance and detract from privacy.  Submissions should go to
  comp-privacy@pica.army.mil and administrative requests to
  comp-privacy-request@pica.army.mil.

There is clearly much potential for overlap between the two digests, although
contributions tend not to appear in both places.  If you are very short of time
and can scan only one, you might want to try the former.  If you are interested
in ongoing detailed discussions, try the latter.  Otherwise, it may well be
appropriate for you to read both, depending on the strength of your interests
and time available.
                                                  PGN

------------------------------

End of RISKS-FORUM Digest 14.34
************************


From van-bc!rsoft!agate!ucbvax!CSL.SRI.COM!risks Thu Feb 25 12:25:33 PST 1993
Article: 834 of comp.risks
Path: van-bc!rsoft!agate!ucbvax!CSL.SRI.COM!risks
From: risks@CSL.SRI.COM (RISKS Forum)
Newsgroups: comp.risks
Subject: RISKS DIGEST 14.36
Message-ID: <CMM.0.90.1.730597148.risks@chiron.csl.sri.com>
Date: 24 Feb 93 23:39:08 GMT
Sender: daemon@ucbvax.BERKELEY.EDU
Reply-To: risks@csl.sri.com
Distribution: world
Organization: The Internet
Lines: 463
Approved: risks@csl.sri.com

RISKS-LIST: RISKS-FORUM Digest  Weds 24 February 1993  Volume 14 : Issue 36

        FORUM ON RISKS TO THE PUBLIC IN COMPUTERS AND RELATED SYSTEMS 
   ACM Committee on Computers and Public Policy, Peter G. Neumann, moderator

  Contents:
3rd Conf. on Computers, Freedom, & Privacy, CFP 1993 (Bruce R. Koball)
2nd Conf. on Computers, Freedom, & Privacy -- PROCEEDINGS (Lance J. Hoffman)
Educational Loan Services -- ELSI (Steve Hoffman)
Phone problems:  Re: "...Phone Jam", and a new problem (Bill Warner)
MIT's on-line Student Information Services (Steve Bellovin)
Kerberos and password-guessing attacks (Jonathan Kamens)
Re: Tapping Phones (Fred Cohen)
Re: On-line services (lack of) security (Bill Seurer)
Re: request for opinions on Artificial Life (Bill Humphries)

 The RISKS Forum is a moderated digest discussing risks; comp.risks is its 
 Usenet counterpart.  Undigestifiers are available throughout the Internet,
 but not from RISKS.  Contributions should be relevant, sound, in good taste
 good taste, objective, coherent, concise, and nonrepetitious.  Diversity is
 welcome.  CONTRIBUTIONS to RISKS@CSL.SRI.COM, with appropriate, substantive 
 "Subject:" line.  Others may be ignored!  Contributions will not be ACKed.  
 The load is too great.  **PLEASE** INCLUDE YOUR NAME & INTERNET FROM: ADDRESS,
 especially .UUCP folks.  REQUESTS please to RISKS-Request@CSL.SRI.COM.     

 Vol i issue j, type "FTP CRVAX.SRI.COM<CR>login anonymous<CR>AnyNonNullPW<CR>
 CD RISKS:<CR>GET RISKS-i.j<CR>" (where i=1 to 14, j always TWO digits).  Vol i
 summaries in j=00; "dir risks-*.*<CR>" gives directory; "bye<CR>" logs out.
 The COLON in "CD RISKS:" is essential.  "CRVAX.SRI.COM" = "128.18.10.1".
 <CR>=CarriageReturn; FTPs may differ; UNIX prompts for username, password.

 For information regarding delivery of RISKS by FAX, phone 310-455-9300
 (or send FAX to RISKS at 310-455-2364, or EMail to risks-fax@cv.vortex.com).

 ALL CONTRIBUTIONS CONSIDERED AS PERSONAL COMMENTS; USUAL DISCLAIMERS APPLY.
 Relevant contributions may appear in the RISKS section of regular issues
 of ACM SIGSOFT's SOFTWARE ENGINEERING NOTES, unless you state otherwise.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: Wed, 24 Feb 1993 11:05:46 -0800
From: Bruce R Koball <bkoball@well.sf.ca.us>
Subject: Third Conference on Computers, Freedom, and Privacy, CFP 1993

There's still time to register for CFP'93! A number of spaces in this
limited-attendance event are still available, so act now!

The Third Conference on Computers, Freedom and Privacy, 9-12 March 1993 
San Francisco Airport Marriott Hotel, Burlingame, CA

The sessions in the main program include:

* ELECTRONIC DEMOCRACY 
* ELECTRONIC VOTING 
* CENSORSHIP AND FREE SPEECH ON THE NET 
* PORTRAIT OF THE ARTIST ON THE NET 
* DIGITAL TELEPHONY AND CRYPTOGRAPHY 
* HEALTH RECORDS AND CONFIDENTIALITY 
* THE MANY FACES OF PRIVACY 
* THE DIGITAL INDIVIDUAL 
* GENDER ISSUES IN COMPUTING AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
* THE HAND THAT WIELDS THE GAVEL 
* THE POWER, POLITICS AND PROMISE OF INTERNETWORKING 
* INTERNATIONAL DATA FLOW 

The conference will also offer a number of in-depth tutorials 
on subjects including:

* Information use in the private sector
* Constitutional law and civil liberties
* Investigating telecom fraud
* Practical data inferencing
* Privacy in the public and private workplace
* Legal issues for sysops
* Access to government information
* Navigating the Internet 

INFORMATION
For more information on the CFP'93 program and advance 
registration call, write or email to:

CFP'93 INFORMATION
2210 SIXTH STREET
BERKELEY, CA 94710
(510) 845-1350
cfp93@well.sf.ca.us 

A complete electronic version of the conference brochure with more detailed
descriptions of the sessions, tutorials, and registration information is also
available via anonymous ftp from sail.stanford.edu in the file: pub/les/cfp-93

    [SEE ALSO RISKS-14.21 (with an address correction in 14.26).  PGN]

------------------------------

Date: Thu, 4 Feb 93 16:58:10 EST
From: "Lance J. Hoffman" <hoffman@seas.gwu.edu>
Subject: 2nd Conf. on Computers, Freedom, & Privacy-written & elec. proceedings

     The written proceedings and the electronic written proceedings of the
Second Conference on Computers, Freedom, and Privacy, sponsored by the
Association for Computing Machinery and held March 18-20, 1992 in Washington,
D. C. are now available.
 
     To obtain the written proceedings, contact the ACM Order Department, 
P.O. Box 64145, Baltimore MD 21264, 1-800-342-6626 or 1-410-528-4261 (MD, AK,
and outside US).  The ACM order number is 533921.  The price is $15.00 for ACM
members and $26.00 for others.
 
     To obtain the electronic proceedings, make an ftp connnection to
ftp.gwu.edu and login as "anonymous".  Get file CFP2S00, which has a table of
contents describing the other files CFP2S01, CFP2S02, ..., CFP2S11.  Get these
files if you desire them.

Professor Lance J. Hoffman, Dept of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
The George Washington University, Washington, D. C. 20052
(202) 994-4955  fax: (202) 994-0227  hoffman@seas.gwu.edu

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 24 Feb 93 07:27:00 PST
From: Steve Hoffman  24-Feb-1993 0959 <hoffman@xdelta.enet.dec.com>
Subject: Educational Loan Services -- ELSI

My mother recently received several telephone calls from an organization
called Education Loan Services Inc (ELSI), of Braintree, Massachusetts.
Neither she nor any other family member had ever heard of ELSI -- an
organization that reputedly acts as a student loan clearing house, and as I
have inferred from my conversations with them, as a collections agency.

The callers asked for her (Marie) or for my wife (Kelly) concerning a student
loan.  (Both my wife and I have had student loans.  Mom predates the modern
concept of a student loan :-) Mom, being computer-literate and quite familiar
with the more typical computer snarls, naturally assumed it was a computer
error and that it concerned either Kelly or me -- she naturally assumed the
ELSI database had not been updated to indicate that both of our student loans
had been paid.

After an extended conversation with a representative of ELSI, I found they
were "cold calling" anyone with a name that matched those on their loan
paperwork, and further, that the match with Kelly's name was (apparently) a
fluke.  Further, the only way they claimed they could confirm that they had a
mistake was for me to provide them with Mom's social security number.

ELSI refused to accept any other information from me -- length of time at
address, differences in surnames, attendance at other schools, etc --
concerning the parties (not) involved, nor could they provide any information
on the cosigners of the student loan they claimed they were calling on.

When my mother called ELSI back, a (different) ELSI representative indicated
that it appeared to be a simple mix-up on the area code, and that her portion
of ELSI did not have direct access to the ELSI folks placing the outbound
calls.  (Which we found rather surprising.)  Interestingly, a different ELSI
representative had told me that ELSI was calling people based on directory
services information -- and not based on a mixed-up telephone number on the
loan paperwork.

This situation strikes me as having multiple risks.  I could have provided
ELSI with a bogus social security number for Mom.  (I declined to provide any
number.)  If ELSI could validate the social security number -- and I am quite
certain they could, via any one of several credit bureaus -- they would have
already known that mom wasn't a match.  (And then why did they call?)  Such an
organization could also easily be illicit -- "scavenging" either for social
security numbers or worse, scavenging payments from the parents of former
students -- parents who might unknowingly send an ELSI-like organization a
payment or two to keep their child from `defaulting'.

	Steve Hoffman      hoffman@xdelta.enet.dec.com

------------------------------

Date: 23 Feb 1993 20:15:07 -0400 (EDT)
From: warner@ohio.gov
Subject: Phone problems:  "...Phone Jam" (RISKS-14.31) and a new problem

One of the major causes of the long time to get the data from the failed
computer is that phone switches have a lot more 'state' that they did in the
past.  For example, the State of Ohio Centrex (where I work in the telecom
office) is served by the switch which failed.  We have somewhere over 20,000
lines (I don't keep up with the details.)  In the past we had to configure
options like Call Forward No Answer and Call Forward Busy with written service
orders.  But now each line has an option called Call Forward No Answer
Universal (At least the name is close!) which allows someone at the phone to
specify the number to Call Forward Busy to.  This can be changed at any time.
Therefore in the case of a switch failure you can not just return to the
"standard" configuration, but must load a lot of 'state' information from the
failed computer.

This type of state is becoming more common in "fancier" features.  It makes it
much easier to manage a large number of phones!  Features like call
forwarding, which also require the switch to remember a number, are becoming
more and more common.

The State of Ohio phones were dead from about 14 minutes or so.   This likely
affected the Franklin County Ohio Highway Patrol Post's (and General
Head Quarters) public numbers also.

                 
Also, in yesterday's Columbus Dispatch it looks like Ohio Bell lost another
one:
  
The Columbus Dispatch, Wed Feb 17, 1993 Page 3 C (Metro Section)
	(Small article at the bottom in Columns 1 & 2)

"Blown Fuse disrupts phone service"

A blown fuse in the Ohio Bell switch serving 54,768 telephone lines in
Worthington disrupted service throughout the day yesterday.  Repairs were
expected to be completed last night.  Ohio Bell Spokesman Keith Jameson said
911 and other emergency numbers remained in operation, although getting a dial
tome within the affected area was slow.  Calling into the area was difficult
most of the day, since Ohio Bell purposely blocked 75 percent of incoming
calls while repairs were under way.  Jameson said that strategy enabled people
within the area to make calls.  By 5 PM, the company had reduced blocked
incoming calls to 50 percent.  The switch shut down at about 10:30 AM, when at
least one fuse blew, but Jameson said there may be other problems with the
switch.  The problem was not weather related, he said.

William "Bill" Warner, III (N8HJP), State of Ohio - Telecommunications 
2151 Carmack Rd, Columbus, OH 43221 (614)466-6683 warner@ohio.gov (Internet)

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 24 Feb 93 12:21:43 EST
From: smb@research.att.com
Subject: MIT's on-line Student Information Services (Kamens, RISKS-14.35)

>In order to use SIS to access personal data, a user must first register an
>"extra" password with the Kerberos database.  The program that registers this
>password does so by transmitting it to the Kerberos server in encrypted form
>(using a key derived from the user's main Kerberos principal, for which he
>already has a password) so that it isn't exposed to the network.

But has the Kerberos protocol been beefed up yet to guard against
password-guessing attacks?

As Michael Merritt and I noted in our critique of Kerberos (Winter Usenix,
1991, Dallas), Kerberos is vulnerable to password-guessing.  An intruder, from
anywhere on the Internet and without any authentication, can request
ticket-granting tickets for any user.  These are encrypted with a key derived
from the user's password.  But guessing at passwords is an old game -- and one
that succeeds, with ~25% probability, against typical UNIX system passwords.
Kerberos is somewhat more secure, since it permits passwords to be longer than
8 characters, but I'm unaware of any study that's been done to find out if
people actually take advantage of this.

Granted, such attacks may not succeed against any particular student.
But against a collection of students, the odds are pretty good that
some will be vulnerable.

I've seen proposals to strengthen Kerberos against such attacks, but I don't
know if these have been deployed yet.  And there are protocols that prevent
any password-guessing attacks, even by eavesdroppers (i.e., Lomas et. al, 1989
SOSP; Bellovin and Merritt, 1992 Oakland Symposium).

My point here is not to criticize the designers of SIS.  All things
considered, they seem to have done a very good job; the only other safeguard I
can think of would be to notify the student of any new uses of the SIS
account.  Rather, I'm trying to point out that secure systems can't be built
on weak foundations.  Intruders don't go through security; they go around it.

		--Steve Bellovin

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 24 Feb 93 18:14:16 -0500
From: "Jonathan I. Kamens" <jik@aktis.com>
Subject: Kerberos and password-guessing attacks
	(was MIT's on-line Student Information Services (SIS))

   From: smb@research.att.com
   Date: Wed, 24 Feb 93 12:21:43 EST

   But has the Kerberos protocol been beefed up yet to guard against
   password-guessing attacks?

Yes.

The most recent release of MIT Kerberos Version 4 includes kadmin
protocol enhancements to allow for the rejection of weak passwords,
and code on the server to check and reject weak passwords.

I don't know if any V4 vendors have incorporated changes like this
into their products; I suspect it will happen eventually if there is
enough demand for it.

Furthermore, MIT Kerberos Version 5 supports optional preauthentication.  MD5
on the user's password, Smart Card technology, or some other technique (the
code is pretty abstract, so new preauthentication types can be added
relatively easily) is used to create a "magic cookie" which is passed to the
server along with the TGT request.  If the cookie is wrong, the server won't
give the user a TGT to decrypt.  Preauthentication can be required or optional
on a principal-by-principal basis.

MIT V5 doesn't yet have weak-password rejection in it, but the hooks for it
are there, and it will be added before the first official (i.e., not beta
test) V5 release.

I don't think DCE Kerberos has preauthentication in it right now, and I don't
think they plan to add it before the first official DCE release (If you want
them to, and you're a member of the OSF, then let them know!).  I don't know
whether or not DCE Kerberos has weak-password rejection in it.

It is true that both V4 and V5 are still vulnerable to network eavesdropping
weak-password attacks, since an eavesdropper can watch for a TGT on the
network and try to decrypt it once it arrives, even if he doesn't know the
preauthentication magic cookie which convinced the server to send the TGT.
However, weak-password rejection makes the risk of an attack of this sort
minimal, and it is not vulnerable on an entire-Internet scale like the attack
which Steve mentioned.

(Thanks to Ted T'so, tytso@mit.edu, for confirmation of much of the
information above about V5.)

Jonathan Kamens                                       jik@Aktis.COM

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 24 Feb 93 07:51:07 -0500
From: fc@turing.duq.edu (Fred Cohen)
Subject: Re: Tapping Phones (Schumann, RISKS-14.35)

I must disagree [with the statement] that I am creating an unrealistic
security scare.  In fact, even if you are running Kermit from a PC, there are
ways for remote sites to inject commands/code into your machine.  The same is
true for many PC-based telnet, FTP, and Xmodem protocols.  Here is a real
example:

An FTP program was commonly used at one university to transfer information
between user PCs and a file server.  One day, someone noticed files appearing
on their computer that shouldn't have been there.  On subsequent investigation
it was found that the FTP protocol allowed remote users to send files into
the PC whenever the PC was setup to do outgoing transfers.  It turns out that
this is one of the most popular - public domain - FTP packages around.  At
this one site, a password was added to the process to prevent exchange when
the other party did not know the password - but - they did a poor job of it,
and someone discovered a trivial way to get past it within a few days.

Another?:

The well known attack where you transmit characters to a remote terminal that
tell the terminal to store a sequence of characters and play it back can be
exploited to attack remote computers running terminal emulators that are
accurate.  If you run Kermit, you may find that the VT emulations are good
enough to do the job.  That's right - even if you are simply logged in typing
commands, you can be had if the attacker is good enough at it and your package
is a true emulation.  In fact, when you login, you usually even tell the
remote site what kind of terminal you are emulating, thus easing it's attack
burden.

Another?

X-windows without the magic cookie allows remote users to watch what is being
displayed on your screen over the network.  Most X setups are insecure in this
way - at least most of the ones I have seen.

Another? 

Well - I'll hold off for now awaiting your response.  My point still seems
to hold - encrypting links is not adequate to prevent access to your data -
encryption without good computer security is generally not adequate - the
government or anyone else willing and able to go to the trouble can get you
by exploiting the places you login to - it is not patently safe to login to
on-line information services, even if you don't run their software. - FC

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 24 Feb 1993 13:45:09 -0600 (CST)
From: Bill Seurer <seurer+@rchland.ibm.com>
Subject: Re: On-line services (lack of) security (Schumann, RISKS-14.35)

"Mark W. Schumann" <mark@whizbang.wariat.org> writes in RISKS 14.35

>Prodigy, the latter service you mention, requires the use of its own front-end
>program on your PC.  You cannot use Prodigy without it.  Since this front-end
>program executes on your PC, it does have the potential for the abuse you
>mention.  I personally do not use Prodigy in part because of this security
>loophole.

Oh boy, let's kick Prodigy around some more.  Long ago when I was a
Prodigy subscriber and the rumors of Prodigy's uploading of stuff it
shouldn't started I did some experiments the results of which were
posted here.  I proved (as best I could) that the rumors were probably
unfounded and based on Prodigy's method of allocating disk space without
clearing it of previous data first.  Some other people who contacted me
had done similar experiments with similar results.

>On the other hand, other communication services, such as Compuserve, do not
>have this questionable "feature" at all.

America On-Line, TSN, and probably others also have special
communication programs that you must use.  Other services which do not
REQUIRE a specific comm program nonetheless OFFER one that usually
improves use of the service.  Genie (for sure, Aladdin) and Compuserve
(vague memory from years ago) both do.

>You dial Compuserve from your PC with a communications program of your choice.
>At all times the contents of your memory and hard drive are under the complete
>control of your CPU and communications program.

Yeah, but how do you know that the authors of PC-TALK, Qmodem, or
whatever don't have a special hook in them that when you call up
Compuserve it doesn't (semi-seriousness on) upload all your pitiful
Tetris scores so the FBI can blackmail you?  Or heck, maybe Microsoft
has modified Windows or DOS to append juicy data to the end of files
opened for uploading somehow.  Maybe the FBI knows that the authors of
Qmodem use Turbo C++ (or whatever) and have had Borland modify the
compiler to insert this surreptitious uploading code into the comm
program automatically when it is compiled.  Maybe AMI has modified this
BIOS to do something like this.  Who can you trust?

(paragraph about QUICKB deleted)

>Bottom line: No online service can cause your PC to execute code that is not
>in the PC's memory space, Prodigy notwithstanding.

Not true as I have already shown.

In any case, any service that tried something like this would be
committing corporate suicide.  People would notice that their modems
were uploading all this data if by no other means than the Send Data
light on their modem and the hard disk access light and doubtlessly one
of them would figure out what was happening.

Even at high speeds with top notch data compression it still takes a
long time to transfer any significant amount of data.  Maybe "they"
could somehow work it into the background so whenever your modem sent
data you wanted it to a little bit extra would get mixed in but that
seems pretty pointless.

- Bill Seurer    Language and Compiler Development       IBM Rochester, MN
  Internet: BillSeurer@vnet.ibm.com    America On-Line: BillSeurer@aol.com

------------------------------

Date: Wed, 24 Feb 93 13:41:18 -0600
From: "Bill Humphries, Data Husbandry Flunky" <humphrie@ssc.wisc.edu>
Subject: Re: request for opinions on Artificial Life (Cohen, RISKS-14.34)

I understand that most AL research is done by writing AL programs which run on
a virtual computer. The practice is analogous to hacking E Coli which can only
live on a particular medium which is not availiable outside the lab's petri
dish.

I have no problem with people publishing code, even code which could be put
to 'sinister' ends (such as PGP). The author is not responsible for the actions
of the reader or end-user.

If you want to provide some sort of security, perhaps you can make a 
proprietary virtual machine which you distribute with the code in your book.

The code would then only run on the virtual machine. This could provide some
way of at least tracking the spread of malevolent AL programs.

Obviously this is not a perfect solution, but hey, what that guy from NASA
says, this isn't a risk free world.

Bill Humphries <humphrie@ssc.wisc.edu> : U. Wisconsin Economics : 608-262-4543

------------------------------

End of RISKS-FORUM Digest 14.36
************************


