Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!ames!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!nosc!blkhole!titipu!ed
From: ed@titipu.meta.com (Edward Reid)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: The purpose of encryption
Message-ID: <01010064.r8hc2v@titipu.meta.com>
Date: 4 Feb 92 18:28:34 GMT
Reply-To: ed@titipu.meta.com (Edward Reid)
Organization: Metalogic
Lines: 56
X-Mailer: uAccess - Macintosh Release: 1.9b1

In article <PMETZGER.92Feb3185120@snark.shearson.com> (sci.crypt), pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (Perry E. Metzger) writes:

> THE WHOLE POINT OF ENCRYPTION IS TO MAKE FILES UNRECOVERABLE.

Well, if that's really true, you can count me among those who will never, ever
consider encrypting any file in any way.  Shoot, if that's all I want, I can do
it more easily with a five-gallon can of gasoline 8->.

I doubt there are many who fully and wholeheartedly agree with the quoted
definition.

What is really the point of encryption?  There are probably others out there who
can say it better than I, and I will be happy if someone improves on what I
say.  But many recent commenters seem to be making rather strong implicit
assumptions about the goals of encryption without making those goals explicit.

Try this on:

   The whole point of encryption is to make data accessible to some and
   inaccessible to others, to a reasonable approximation, at a reasonable
   cost.

This embodies three points.  First, the data must remain accessible to some;
the goal is a balance of accessibility vs inaccessibility appropriate to the
application.  Second, the result is never exact: some risk of unintended access
or unintended denial of access always exists.  Third, cost is significant.

Evaluations of cryptosystems should address these points.

Encryption algorithms are usually evaluated on their strength, which is
generally equated to the risk of unintended access.  This is an appropriate way
to evaluate an algorithm.  A system -- which will include all the software
involved plus all extra-computer procedures required -- should also be
evaluated on the risk of unintended denial of access.  The proper balance point
varies by application.

The overall quality of a system should be judged on its precision.  Does it
seamlessly keep out intruders, while smoothly allowing access to the intended
users?  This implies that there is not a single value which represents the
quality of a system, but a quality function whose domain is the set of
potential applications.

Cost is most often addressed as the cost to the intruder.  The cost of running
the encryption algorithm is usually addressed as well.  The cost of using a
complete system, however, includes costs of key management, users' time spent
driving or waiting for the cryptosystem, etc.  Acceptable costs vary by several
orders of magnitude over the domain of applications.

The ideal cryptosystem for a given application will exhibit a balance
appropriate to the application, with high precision and low cost.

Note that the five-gallon solution which I proposed initially exhibits poor
balance, high precision, and high cost for almost any potential application.

Edward Reid  (8-}>
  eel:   ed@titipu.meta.com  or  nosc.mil!titipu.meta.com!ed
  snail: PO Box 378/Greensboro FL 32330
