Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!milano!cactus.org!ritter
From: ritter@cactus.org (Terry Ritter)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: the trusted public-key distribution problem
Message-ID: <10396@cactus.org>
Date: 10 Feb 92 09:17:51 GMT
References: <1992Jan31.194242.14474@talon.ucs.orst.edu> <13121.Feb920.47.1192@virtualnews.nyu.edu>
Organization: Capital Area Central Texas Unix Society, Austin, TX
Lines: 74


 In <13121.Feb920.47.1192@virtualnews.nyu.edu> brnstnd@nyu.edu
 (Dan Bernstein) writes:


>(Dan Bernstein, brnstnd@nyu.edu, key fdsahkfdsahfdsa, expires March 1992)
>hereby asserts (signed in his own public key) that (Dan Bernstein,
>brnstnd@nyu.edu, key 123674932, expires June 1993) is the same person,
>and vice versa. End of problem.


 Several problems:

 1. I may become aware that my key may have been compromised and I may
 need to repudiate it prior to its expiration date.  I can inform my
 known correspondents, but others might use my old key, which is still
 apparently valid.  If the old key is used, and the key really has been
 compromised, such messages may be intercepted by software in a
 subverted network node, the message deciphered and then re-enciphered
 in my current key.  Neither end need know that this happened.


 2. A compromised key is worthless for certifying anything, let alone
 a new key.  Even a "personal" public key can be compromised, just like
 any other key.  Any key which can possibly be compromised (that is,
 all keys) should be changed periodically.

 The reason I change keys periodically, even if the old key is not
 *known* to be compromised, is to limit the damage from *unknown*
 compromise.  The idea is to start over with re-assured security
 after every major key change.

 If the old key *had* been compromised, then whoever had my key could
 produce a similar certificate, containing a key they can decipher.



>Two distinct (name,address,key) pairs
>can always convince you that they're the same person, given
>cryptographically secure signatures.

 This is ridiculous.  Any key which is assumed to be compromised is
 worthless for certifying anything.  If the key really was compromised,
 whoever has that key could produce a similar certificate.



>Who cares? If keys expire quickly enough, then the risk that any of them
>will be compromised is acceptably small.

 A single day (or perhaps only a single work shift) is a reasonable
 limit for acceptable risk.  After that, people go home, and strange
 things can happen to physical security.  Can we support a new public
 key every day for every user?

 Presumably we will not wear the key card to bed, nor take it into the
 shower, nor to the beach.  But this means there is a security risk,
 and this risk is far greater than the level we normally expect from
 cryptography.

 Most discussions of cipher technical strength aim at something like:
 "Unlikely to be broken with 100 years of high-speed computation."
 But I expect that key compromise is far more likely then the possibility
 that a multi-billion dollar investment will be applied for 100 years.

 Since users demand high levels of security from cipher designs, the
 far greater risk of key compromise should not be considered "acceptably
 small."


 ---
 Terry Ritter   Blue Jean Computer Engineering   (512) 892-0494


