Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!qt.cs.utexas.edu!yale.edu!jvnc.net!darwin.sura.net!europa.asd.contel.com!uunet!mcsun!uknet!cam-cl!cam-cl!rja14
From: rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: the trusted public-key distribution problem
Message-ID: <1992Feb12.190922.12040@cl.cam.ac.uk>
Date: 12 Feb 92 19:09:22 GMT
References: <10394@cactus.org> <13121.Feb920.47.1192@virtualnews.nyu.edu> <35246@mentor.cc.purdue.edu> <28019.Feb1208.07.0992@virtualnews.nyu.edu>
Sender: news@cl.cam.ac.uk (The news facility)
Reply-To: rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (Giles Murchiston)
Followup-To: 15997 in sci.crypt
Organization: U of Cambridge Computer Lab, UK
Lines: 94

In article <35246@mentor.cc.purdue.edu> hrubin@pop.stat.purdue.edu
(Herman Rubin) writes:
> There is exactly ONE problem with the distribution of public keys
> in an insecure, or even a very secure, network, assuming that the
> ciphers are essentially unbreakable.  That is that of authentiticy
> of the person named as the holder of the private key associated with
> the public key.  There is no intrinsic way for me to tell that the
> Dan Bernstein posting the article referred to is not Joe Bftsplk, and
> it would take someone trusted who could authenticate the fact to 
> provide conclusive proof that this is in fact the case.

There is a further problem, which is that one trusted authority would 
not be enough for simple logistic reasons. Even if so, there is a 
whole chain of problems: would the NSA permit a US authority to issue 
crypto keys to users overseas in a system that was free of exploitable 
trapdoors? Would users in most neutral and third world countries trust 
such an authority even if it existed? Even if it existed and was 
trusted, would every network user in (say) Zambia have to fly to the 
USA with his birth certificate and all his other documents in order 
to be enrolled? Would the State Depertment give him a visa for this 
purpose? Even if so, would they keep on doing so once a million would
be illegal immigrants each year applied for US visas on the grounds 
that they wanted network id's?

Binding physical persons to id's and crypto keys is a nontrivial problem
which can only be done locally. This means by the postmaster or other 
authority at the home site.

Some of these authorities, eg systems administrators in the .mil and .gov
namespaces, will be be very strict: checking credentials and references 
back a generation, performing lie detector tests, comparing fingerprints 
against Interpol files, etc etc, and finally issuing crypto keys in
secure hardware tokens with biometric locks.

Others, eg. in the .edu sector, may be very laid back and give out id's 
and keys to anyone who asks. In fact I'd be very surprised indeed if 
a lot of private keys didn't end up sitting in obvious files on hackable 
servers.

In order to provide a general solution to the key management on a large 
heterogeneous network like this one, the real problem would be how to 
set up and run a system with multiple and very disparate authorities.

We would have to design a key management architecture which could be made
as secure as any institution wanted, and where insecure domains would not 
prejudice anybody else.

Furthermore, experience suggests that the largest directory that can be 
maintained (and that with difficulty) is one of postmasters.

This tends to suggest that each postmaster should have a public key on 
a directory which is widely disseminated and mutually verified, and each 
user should have a public key certified by his postmaster. Designing the
mutual verification process should be fun - hard but not impossible. You
could set things up so that keys would propagate, constant key checks 
would be made and any spoof would become apparent as the emergence of a
disjoint domain.


There is of another approach altogether. This is : just don't care about 
the binding between the id and the physical person! 

Does it matter whether Herman Rubin exists at Purdue, or indeed whether 
he exists at all? Clearly there exists an id, hrubin@pop.stat.purdue, 
which is controlled by some person, group or organisation which 
participates in this discussion. Now we wouldn't discriminate against 
Herman if it turned out he/she was black or gay or disabled or poor, 
so why should we discriminate against him/her if he/she turns out to 
be an alias, an extraterrestrial or even not to exist at all? Is this 
not a canonical extension of the principle of tolerance?

Consider Nicholas Bourbaki. This is a persona inhabited by a number of 
French mathematicians. Is Nicholas Bourbaki entitled to an id? Is he 
entitled to speak?

In this group especially, I suspect there are a number of participants
who are employed by the likes of NSA and have to use aliases or they'd
lose their jobs for talking shop without clearance.

Now if we take this `voluntary' view of key management, we can still 
concede that there exist firms such as insurance companies and banks which 
may want personal information for legitimate actuarial reasons. In that 
case, one could argue, it is their responsibility, and theirs alone, to 
verify the key/person binding, and to ensure that their own public keys 
are correctly disseminated with no spoofing. Let the administrative burden
be borne by whoever will reap the financial or other rewards - there's no
other way to hope that the admin will be done well or indeed at all.


In conclusion: do we need to know whether Dan Bernstein is Joe Blftsplk or
is it irrelevant for the purposes of the internet?


Giles
