Path: msuinfo!uchinews!ncar!asuvax!cs.utexas.edu!qt.cs.utexas.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!cunixf.cc.columbia.edu!cunixa.cc.columbia.edu!kasdan
From: kasdan@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (John Kasdan)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Public key encryption and patents
Message-ID: <1992Feb17.223934.16293@cunixf.cc.columbia.edu>
Date: 17 Feb 92 22:39:34 GMT
Sender: usenet@cunixf.cc.columbia.edu (The Network News)
Reply-To: kasdan@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (John Kasdan)
Organization: Columbia University School of Law
Lines: 37
Nntp-Posting-Host: cunixa.cc.columbia.edu

I have been wondering about patents and public key (PK) encryption.
As near as I can see, the main effect of patents in this area has been
to disuade people from using PK systems.  The standard story, seen
many times on USENET, is that someone asks for public domain RSA
software and is told that there ain't no such animal.  So, since the
requests seem to indicate an interest in implementing PK systems, I
have several questions.

The first question is, are there any PK systems in general use?
Either licensed or unlicensed?  (This is not a suggestion that people
infringe patents.  See below.)  In particular, does Athena use some
sort of PK system?  Also, are there such systems in operation in
Europe or other places outside of the reach of U.S. patent law?  If
so, how well have they worked out in terms of user satisfaction, etc.? 

Second, are Diffie and Hellman as vigorous in enforcing their patent
as the RSA folk?

Finally, given the interest in Pretty Good Privacy (tm), how come no
one has put together a PK private key exchange system involving
elliptic encryption and DES?  (Or has someone?)  If I understand
Victor Miller's recent postings, the basic elliptic curve encryption
system is not patented and should be farily easy to implement for key
exchange. Such a system would have the advantage of not infringing any
patents and not depending on an untested encryption system.  And it
seems that such a PK private key exchange system ought to serve enough
of the functions of a full PK system to give the network community the
opportunity to see how it likes such things.

(My apologies if this appears in multiples.  My rn didn't post it
locally on the first try, but did post another article which I sent to
another group, so I am not sure what's wrong and am trying again.  I
will cancel the other(s) if it/they shows(s) up.  I think the problem
might be that I originally tried also to post to comp.patents, which
is moderated.  Would that cause the article not to show up on an
unmoderated group?)
/JK (.sig closed for repairs)
