Path: msuinfo!uchinews!ncar!asuvax!cs.utexas.edu!usc!rpi!batcomputer!cornell!rochester!cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!mnr
From: mnr+@cs.cmu.edu (Marc Ringuette)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: the trusted public-key distribution problem
Message-ID: <1992Feb18.205219.22752@cs.cmu.edu>
Date: 18 Feb 92 20:52:19 GMT
Organization: School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon
Lines: 37
Nntp-Posting-Host: daisy.learning.cs.cmu.edu

For a year or two now, I've had a pet idea about how to achieve
distributed security and do things like electronic cash.  It's 
to create a SECURE NETNEWS facility in which each person can be
sure that he/she reads exactly the same sequence of articles as
every other person in the world reads.

This would of course solve the key distribution problem that Dan and I
have been discussing:  just post your (name,key) pair to the secure
newsgroup, and you can be sure that the whole world has received the
message.

Implementing secure netnews in a nice distributed way is the hard part.
I propose that each message to the newsgroup should be considered valid
if it has been seen by at least half of the nodes on the network.  This
can be verified by each node via a random sample of the other nodes.
Anybody can join as a node by posting a public key to the "join-up"
newsgroup.  It will be important not to allow anyone to flood the net
with false nodes.


Like the idea?  Any comments?


[ Marc Ringuette | Cranberry Melon University, Cucumber Science Department  ]
[ mnr@cs.cmu.edu | 412-268-3728 | "I've half a mind to be a vegetable."     ]

p.s. Electronic cash can be implemented using secure netnews, given an
additional ANONYMOUS POSTING facility which is easy to implement.
Define owning a given $100 bill as "knowing the secret corresponding to
a publicly posted $100 bill."  Money comes into existence when a bank
signs a message creating a $100 bill and promising to redeem it to
anyone who can sign messages with its secret key.  To send money to
someone, send them the secret key; they should anonymously post a new
secret key to the "money" newsgroup, saying "this $100 bill is now
known by public key X" and signed with the old public key.

The bandwidth problems need some work.
