Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!widener!hela.iti.org!usc!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!psinntp!visix!news
From: amanda@visix.com (Amanda Walker)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Pawn shops etc, and a NEW question.
Message-ID: <1992Feb21.051907.13198@visix.com>
Date: 21 Feb 92 05:19:07 GMT
References: <299ffefa.knapper@knapper.cactus.org>
Sender: news@visix.com
Organization: Visix Software Inc., Reston, VA
Lines: 38

There's at least one commercial CD-ROM encryption scheme that is aimed
at this exact problem.  I'm most familiar with one which is used by
Adobe's Type On Call CD.  It's fairly clever, although not completely
secure.  Here's an example of the approach they use:

1. Client buys CD.  Each CD has a unique "CD key" packaged with it.

2. Client registers CD by supplying name, address, etc. and CD key.
   Client enters CD key into a copy of the unlocking software.

3. To buy a particular file, client calls up vendor and supplies the
   CD key and which file to purchase (along with a credit card #,
   etc.).

4. The vendor takes decryption key for the file, encrypts it with the CD
   key, and gives the result to the client.  The client supplies this
   value to the unlocking software, which decrypts it with its CD key
   and then decrypts the file with it.

This kind of approach can be done with either a conventional cipher or
a public-key system, depending on how much security you need.  It can
also be elaborated to make it harder for one customer to give away keys
to particular files.  Using the Type On Call example, it is extremely
difficult to access the unencrypted versions of the files, since they
us a custom driver to talk to that part of the CD, which checks to see
which files have been purchased and only shows those files to the rest
of the system.

Now, there are still holes, but it seems secure enough for most
commercial purposes, since given a strong cipher for the files
themselves, a brute force attack is pretty infeasible for most
customers.


Amanda Walker						      amanda@visix.com
Visix Software Inc.				    ...!uupsi!visix.com!amanda
-- 
"An architecture in hand is worth 4 or 5 in vapor."	--Eugene Miya
