Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:7461 alt.security:5638
Path: msuinfo!caen!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!emory!rsiatl!jgd
From: jgd@dixie.com (John De Armond)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security
Subject: Re: License managers (was Re: Encrypted CDROM Software Distribution)
Message-ID: <f5lhm4q@dixie.com>
Date: 26 Feb 92 09:50:23 GMT
References: <edotto.699034656@uipsuxb>
Organization: Dixie Communications Public Access.  The Mouth of the South.
Lines: 50

edotto@uipsuxb.ps.uiuc.edu (Edward C. Otto III) writes:


>>This is exactly the kind of nonsense which has made copy protected
>>software disappear from the PC marketplace, and there's no reason to think
>>it'll be any more successful in the workstation arena.  Schemes that
>>attempt to identify individual computers based on details of hardware
>>configuration simply don't work.

>Wrong. Seen VMS licences lately?

Yas..  And I've watched VMS getting shoved out the door and being
replaced with Unix, not the least of the reasons being because of
the damn DEC license manager (extortion daemon.)

A few  years ago I was manager of software development at a company that
had a large VAXCluster.  We did our development on a series of networked
VAX stations.  DEC gave us everything we wanted at no cost 'cuz our
produce moved hardware.  So we're bopping along with DEC donated 
hardware and one day we decide to reboot the  machine that served as 
our source code control system.  Wouldn't boot.  VMS license expired.
ON DEC's OWN DEMO machine.  A call to Dec's Extortion Central got us
nothing.  EC had  no record of the machine being at our site.  To 
make a long story short, the Extortion Manager had us dead in the 
water for three weeks while DEC tried to figure things out.  
We missed a major deadline and in the process vowed to move the shop
away from VMS and onto Unix.  

I made another vow too.  That vow is to NEVER but NEVER use any 
computer system that uses ANY kind of validation or if extenuating 
circumstances force it, hack the validation or have it hacked out.
I've kept that vow too.  I was responsible last year for one of my
clients taking a multi thousand machine contract to IBM and A/UX
instead of SCO because of their damn copy protection daemon.

To the bozo who started this thread.  I think your idea of copy protection
is a great one.  This industry need to flush itself of the greedy, suspicious,
hateful sleezes such as yourself and your scheme will make it happen at
maximum speed.  I'd like to see you spend all your time developing 
your copy protection and none on the application.  That way we won't have
to worry about being tempted to make an exception for an otherwise fine
product.  May your trip to bankrupcy court be a speedy one.

John

-- 
John De Armond, WD4OQC        | "I'm a lawyer but I guess I'm also human." 
Rapid Deployment System, Inc. |             Ian Zimmerman. 
Marietta, Ga                  |      Lawyer for the purse snatcher
jgd@dixie.com                 |   scum who sued the taxi driver in 'Frisco.
