Xref: msuinfo sci.lang:14507 sci.crypt:7468 sci.edu:1954 sci.logic:2302 sci.psychology:7384 sci.research:2606
Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!att!pacbell.com!decwrl!public!grady
From: grady@public.BTR.COM (Grady Ward  grady@btr.com)
Newsgroups: sci.lang,sci.crypt,sci.edu,sci.logic,sci.psychology,sci.research
Subject: lexical database available
Message-ID: <5744@public.BTR.COM>
Date: 27 Feb 92 04:07:46 GMT
Followup-To: sci.lang
Organization: BTR Public Access UNIX, MtnView CA. Contact: Customer Service cs@BTR.COM
Lines: 74

Apple's recent announcement of a 100,000
word vocabulary speech recognition technology
underscores the recent flurry of activity in
English-language-aware engineering.

Since there are so few (virtually no) lexical
resources as the following, I will post it twice
a year so that you may be aware of it.

---

If you are developing am application that needs to
interact with users in English, then you will want
to be aware of the Moby library of lexical databases,
available in source ASCII, that you can include into
you research projects or commercial application
royalty-free.  There are five databases publicly available:

Moby Words -- 560,000 English language entries
(applications: spelling checkers, password screening,
password generation, word recreations, compression modeling)

Moby Hyphenator -- 155,000 fully hyphenated entries
(applications: correctly formatted textual output,
music lyric syllabification)

Moby Part-of-Speech -- 214,000 entries marked with
up to seventeen part(s)-of-speech in English, in order of use.
(applications: input parsing, principle or rule-based grammars,
generation of syntactically-correct English)

Moby Pronunciator -- 167,000 entries with full International 
Phonetic Alphabet encoding, including syllabification and
primary, secondary, and tertiary stress marks.  Hundreds
of same spelling/different part-of-speech and pronunciation
disambiguated. 
(applications: text-to-speech drivers for multimedia,
continuous speech recognition models (such as Apple's
newly announced system), rhyming dictionaries,
pronounceable password generation)

Moby Thesaurus -- 1.2 million synonyms and related ideas
(applications: concept-driven database searches, free-form 
English language input parsing [such as that required for 
Loebner Prize contestants], on-line thesauruses,
universal parsing machines, generative semantics,
non-literal parsings.)

These databases are intended to free the developer or
researcher from the tedium of attempting to collect similar data sets.
We have aimed at comprehensiveness; we have found that it is _much_
easier to edit or delete rather than compile this data in the first place.
_Save your time for the creative aspects of your application_

All databases are supplied in pure ASCII, royalty-free, in 
both Macintosh and MS-DOS disk formats (also in .Z file 
formats) Both commercial (to resell derived structures as
part of commercial applications) and educational/research
licenses are available. 

For a FREE BROCHURE with sample entries and details on 
getting your own copy of this material, write or telephone
your postal address:

Illumind Unabridged
Grady Ward, compiler
571 Belden St., Ste. A.
Monterey, CA  93940
USA
(408) 373-1491
Internet: grady@btr.com

-- 
Grady Ward  grady@btr.com  KD6ETH @ K6LY.#NOCAL.CA.USA.NA  Moby Lexicons
