Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!uknet!pipex!sunic!trane.uninett.no!nntp.uio.no!nac.no!nntp.nta.no!hal.nta.no!styri
From: styri@hal.nta.no (Haakon Styri)
Subject: Re: AI, Random numbers, and Cryptography
Message-ID: <1993Sep1.151720.15341@nntp.nta.no>
Sender: news@nntp.nta.no
Nntp-Posting-Host: balder.nta.no
Reply-To: styri@nta.no
Organization: Norwegian Telecom Research
References: <1993Aug23.213918.23412@cc.ic.ac.uk> <CCJ8tn.5p2@acsu.buffalo.edu>
Date: Wed, 1 Sep 93 15:17:20 GMT
Lines: 40

In article <1993Aug23.213918.23412@cc.ic.ac.uk> 
atae@spva.ph.ic.ac.uk (Dr Ata Etemadi) writes:
> The basic premise was that the net was trained on words from a
> dictionary which were encrypted (he was real hazy about the
> encryption technique and wouldn't be drawn out during questioning).

Well, not knowing neither what kind of neural net, nor what
kind of encryption system he used there's not much I can
say.

However, because you say the neural net was trained it must
have been a network using supervised learning, and from
your article I infer that the network was trained using
cleartext/cryptotext pairs. Well, that'll limit the
usefullness of that code-cracker somewhat.

Without any knowledge of the network topology, how large
blocks of text were processed, what kind of encryption
was used, well ... I can only offer an educated guess.

During training, the netword would be able to learn
code tables and the decryption algorithm (however,
some of the algorithm may have been reflected in the
network topology). If the demonstration was based
decoding some words that was not present in the
training set - well, that's not too impressive. It
would even be possible to teach the network the
set of possible words, using a dictionary, to aid
the cracking. Good network programming, but not
a scientific breakthrough.

Neural networks are sometimes very good at emulating
what can be done with statistical techniques. There
are a few cryptographic systems that can be cracked
using statistical techniques. Not that I deny neural
nets are fun to play with and may be very useful
tools...

---
Haakon Styri
