Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,sci.math
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!hela.iti.org!widener!dsinc!vu-vlsi.ee.vill.edu!kasturi
From: kasturi@vu-vlsi.ee.vill.edu (Srinivasa M. Kasturi - EE8460 Spring 1991)
Subject: Cycles and Cryptanalysis - relevance ?
Message-ID: <CCq8r3.4pw@vu-vlsi.ee.vill.edu>
Keywords: cycles, cryptanalysis
Organization: Villanova University
Date: Thu, 2 Sep 1993 12:45:02 GMT
Lines: 102
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:19019 alt.security:12013 sci.math:51318

Note - Seems an ealier posting did not get through - ignore if you saw
       it earlier 

Hello and cheers!

Have run into a snag lately on cryptanalysis of an algorithm.

Background:
I have been working on a digital signaturing scheme - RSK -
Ram Shyam Key (algorithm + interface) for some time now.  
Also am playing around with a variant based on DES
(SID - Signature Interface to DES).  These schemes are essentially
multikey simple encryption machines with an accompanying
interface.  The interface provides the perception of digital
signaturing.  The encrption machine also provides
the properties of a digital signaturing scheme along with data security.

Our (Dr. Richard Perry and myself) preliminary paper on RSK was presented
during summer of 1991 at the Spread Spectrum conference proceedings in
Montebello, Canada. (guess the conference topic was SS applications
myth or reality?).  Part of the security happens to do with linear
feedback shift registers.

Of late (actually since an year) have been loosing some hair trying
to develope a complete cryptanalysis of the scheme.  A behavioural model
of the scheme was also done (sort of RTL and Behavioural model) to
get a feel of the scheme.  An earlier iteration was done in C.
I plan to update the C code at the next stretch of holidays hopefully!
and pass on to any one who is interested in tinkering with the results.

Problem:
Not going into details - if you could imagine each output bit
of a crypto system to be represented as a function of all possible
combinations of the input data bits with the parameters defining
somekind of unique coefficients for each of the input data bit
combinations- - current state of our analysis shows that each output bit needs
to be solved by a set of equations where the number of unknowns
(co-efficeints) is large.  That is, for an 'n' bit word length one needs 
to solve 2^n equations for each bit position coefficients and no
relationship (none figured out yet) exits to exploit the solved 
coefficeint for one bit position to solve the coefficeints of the 
other bits.  Essentially the complete data set of 2^n have to be used.
That is solving for 2^n coefficients with 2^n equations.  And when
n is large that gives computational/combinational security.

This part of the proof is kind of satisfactory now, though am
still working on it (makes u feel these crypto prooves to be
too mercurial).

The other property that was investigated is to see if combinations
of input patterns yield any mathematical relationships between
the outputs.  Again kind of satisfactory. (e.g. cannot defeat
by obtaining
         output of A say (A_op) and same for B (B_op)
and hoping to get 
         output of A.xor.B = A_op.xor.B_op )

Third property explored was to observe cycles in the output based on the
following understanding.

(definition) Cycle:  Regeneration of the original input, after n steps,
when the output is continuously feedback as input.

For example, a feedback polynomial that is a product of two
maximal sequences yields cycles that are related to the
run lengths of individual polynomials. 

Simple addition also shows such properties.

Having worked out few examples on the RSK algorithm -
BY EXAMPLE - there were no cycle properties that were noticed.  
Ofcourse the sample set was small.  

But it got me thinking as to the

	EXACT RELEVANCE OF CYCLES FOR CRYPTANALYSIS.
		(this bothers me most)

What is the property that is of true value to a crptanalyst -
is it just the fact that cycles exit OR is the fact that the
cycles that exist have a certain property (such as two cycles
are the same but for an offset, or number of cycles and their
lengths are related to the factors of the generating polynomial)

Am looking for some pointers or corrections or
oversights or observations on all possible forms of human error
ommissions in doing cryptanalysis.

You could send me email at
	kasturi@vu-vlsi.vill.edu or 
	kasturi@trwacs.fp.trw.com

Thanx a bunch for reading on - Srini

Enlightenments:
	Research is cryptanalysis of cycles and patterns created by God.
	God loves wheels within wheels. ;8)

DISCLAIMER:	
None of this analysis is related to any TRW activities - 
it is a continuation of graduate research work.  
All opinions expressed are my own errors or accuracies.
