Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!utcsri!utnut!torn!watserv2.uwaterloo.ca!watmath!ember!pacolley
From: pacolley@ember.UUCP (Paul Colley)
Newsgroups: ont.general,sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Radar Detector Detectors (Are they real?) [Was Re: RADAR DETECTORS]
Message-ID: <32005@ember.UUCP>
Date: 2 Sep 93 19:49:03 GMT
References: <1993Aug26.223130.27125@rose.com> <25lp7h$6af@m.ehd.hwc.ca> <1993Sep1.064804.16288@cdf.toronto.edu> <31845@ember.UUCP> <richard.746982339@marvin.dgbt.doc.ca>
Reply-To: pacolley@ember.UUCP (Paul Colley)
Followup-To: sci.crypt
Distribution: ont
Organization: Ember---private system
Lines: 64

In article <richard.746982339@marvin.dgbt.doc.ca> richard@dgbt.doc.ca
(Richard Paiement) writes:

>I've always wondered how cable companies could have equipment so sensitive
>they could actually nab someone illegally descrambling pay-tv, just by
>intercepting frequencies from the street in front of the house. Is there
>no other spectral noise around these frequencies that would make it hard
>for the cable companies to achieve this? or is it fairly simple?

This has wandered somewhat far from ont.general, so I've set follow-ups
to sci.crypt, the most relevant group I could think of.

This comes under the heading of "TEMPEST" attacks---determining
what's on your T.V. screen (more usually, computer monitor) from
its electro-magnetic emissions.

For standard, store-bought equipment it is fairly easy to determine
from the EM emissions what it is you're watching.  For the cable
company it's even easier, since they control the signal you are
displaying, so they can deliberately broadcast something easy to
detect, and all they need as a yes/no result.  This makes an easy
technical problem even easier.  I'd say it borders on the trivial.

As a no-brainer, no-hardware example:  You could figure out what
most people in a typical apartment building are watching just by
walking down the hallways and listening carefully as you go past
each door.  To improve the odds, you'd want to do this while the
show on pay-TV was particularly loud, which is easy for the cable
company to arrange.  The human ear:  "equipment so sensitive, it
could actually nab someone illegally descrambling pay-tv."

Detecting EM requires hardware, but isn't really any more difficult
than the above.

What the cable company might do with this information is more
complex.  There are probably legal obstacles to (a) doing the
monitoring, and (b) using the information obtained.

It's possible to construct hardware that is resistant to this type of
monitoring.  It's almost certainly not worth the effort for cable-TV. 

-----

There are other approaches without the same legal pitfalls.

One cable company reverse-engineered an illegal decoder and found
an incompatibility with legitimate decoders.  They exploited this
incompatibility during a popular show.  If you had an illegal
decoder, you saw static.

A bunch of semi-stupid people called in to tell the cable company
that the cable was on the fritz.  The cable company told them the
problem was with their decoder, could they bring it into the office
the next day to be fixed?  A large subset of the semi-stupid people
proved themselves REAL STUPID by bringing in their illegal decoders.

Details were posted in comp.risks recently.

- Paul Colley
University:  colley@qucis.queensu.ca
Home:        pacolley@ember.uucp   watmath!ember!pacolley  +1 613 545 3807
"The source will be posted as soon as the AI agrees to be disassembled."
      (Frank Tore Johansen)

