Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!seismo!lll-winken.llnl.gov!unixhub!ditka!zygot!burnflag!staticrn
From: staticrn@burnflag.ati.com (Static Runner)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: CPU Encryption and piracy
Message-ID: <XZL09B3w165w@burnflag.ati.com>
Date: Thu, 02 Sep 93 12:43:56 PDT
Organization: Burn This Flag BBS - 408 363-9766
Lines: 50

    There has been much ado about new forms of protection against 
software piracy and possible CPU encryption.
    There really doesn't need to be.
    Unless the CPUs are redesigned to ONLY run programs with a 
CPU-specific index, (and for that matter, probably even if they are), it 
won't do much more than slow down professional crackers.  With some 
groups, it probably won't even make them blink.
    A defense is always only as good as its weakest link, and somewhere 
along the way, a chunk of SOFTWARE has to request the CPU code and 
compare it to something somewhere else coded into the SOFTWARE.  Which 
means, simply put, that if you knock holes in the comparison procedures 
all of the fancy CPU coding means absolutely nothing.
    Granted, you can make it difficult as catching snowflakes by coding 
the request into the software a thousand times and then compressing and 
encrypting the entire blasted thing again, but I'd *STILL* place my bets 
on the crackers.  Some software protections schemes try similar things 
and there's probably very little DOS software of any value that hasn't 
been cracked yet.  And a great deal of DOS software that gets cracked and 
distributed on pirate boards before it ever hits the shelves of Egghead.  
I knew an employee there once that used to log into a few pirate boards 
just to see what was about to arrive in the shop.
    
    There is also the further point that it has never been proven (and 
would be in fact very difficult to prove) exactly how much it would help 
to stop piracy.  Currently, I have exactly four pieces of commercial 
software online:  Windows, Microsoft Word for Windows, Excel and Ultima 
VII.  All of them paid for.  Everything else is shareware or freeware, 
and a good deal of my shareware is paid for.  About a quarter isn't, and 
I'm admittedly over the trial period on most of those, but there's just 
no more cash to be mailed out to these people, most of whom are charging 
just as much as commercial developers.  Well, not most, but many.  I'm 
not doing this because I don't have access to "pirate warez".  If I 
no longer had access, it probably wouldn't change my life.

    But I'm getting off topic, so back to protection schemes.
    One protection scheme that I saw in the "StarSaga" series of games is 
almost unbeatable, and not because of ANY incredible algorithm.  As far 
as that goes, the game comes on a 360k floppy and is completely 
unprotected.  It does however also come with some 900 pages of booklets 
and a map several square feet in size.  You can't play the game without 
them, there's simply no way.  The work involved (and the size involved) 
in digitalizing the entire mess is merely prohibitive, and furthermore 
most crackers and pirates would consider it below their dignity.
    Now THAT is an elegant solution.

--
From: Burn This Flag BBS - Public Internet Account
      San Jose, CA - 408/363-9766


