Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.engr.explosives
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!trimm
From: trimm@netcom.com (Trimm Industries)
Subject: Re: now here's one to consider!
Message-ID: <trimmCCwJIE.5oD@netcom.com>
Organization: Netcom Online Communications Services (408-241-9760 login: guest)
References: <268f3b$ar5@moonpie.cs.umd.edu> <1993Sep4.170723.8397@wuecl.wustl.edu> <1993Sep5.003136.21587@ulysses.att.com>
Distribution: usa,local
Date: Sun, 5 Sep 1993 22:23:01 GMT
Lines: 51
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:19084 alt.engr.explosives:190

In article <1993Sep5.003136.21587@ulysses.att.com> smb@research.att.com (Steven Bellovin) writes:
>I don't know anything about how they work.  I do know, though, that
>precise timing of the various detonators is critical, so to speak.
>You need a perfectly spherical implosion to generate a nuclear explosion.
>That suggests that one strategy is to encrypt the timing data; an
>incorrect decryption would produce bad data, and hence a nuclear
>fizzle.  To guard against someone just ripping out the PAL and installing
>a simple-minded timing circuit -- and with IC's, precise timing is much
>easier today than in 1945 -- I'd guess that the configuration of
>explosives surrounding the plutonium core is asymmetric, at least in
>effect; thus, one would need to do a great deal of engineering analysis
>to reconstruct a proper timing chain.

Yes indeed, in newer American bombs they do exactly this, and a couple
of other things.   There is another concept used as well - the voltage
potential applied to a detonator (which is molded into the Octol segments)
must fall between fairly narrow limits, which must be set prior to detonation
by agreement between two or more detonation computers (the sum of their
potentials is what sets off the device, an open circuit by any of them
stops detonation).  In other words, the bomb does _not_ contain enough
information to result in a high-order detonation.  Part of the information
is in the PAL 12 digit code to the device.  This information is supplied
by the NCA when a strike is authorized.

The way they vary the symmetry of the explosives is by subtly variying
the explosive mixture in the Octol to vary the detonation speed in 
a very precise way.  I don't know for sure, but I suspect that the
segments have precisely the same concentration on the surface and
the variations take place deeper towards the pit.  To get around all
this, one must know the exact physical configuration of the pit,
plus the gradients of concentration of components of the Octol all
trhough the segment, and in each segment, to an exceedingly high
degree of accuracy.  Then one must excuvate the detonators and replace
them with unkeyed models, then reconstruct the carved out Octol,
then set them off in the right sequence.  Sounds like a pain in the butt.

Two comments:
1) This applies only to recent, American weapons.  Old ones, and
ones from other countries, have much less protection against accidental
detonation.  I'd bet they keep most of them partially disassembled.

2) With all this security crap, I wonder if in the vagarities of warfare
if any of the damn things would really go off.

 

-- 
Gary M. Watson
Trimm Industries                          Internet: trimm@netcom.com
North Hollywood, CA 91605                 Compuserve 72242,3437
* See the Trimm RAID-Ready Disk Enclosures at Comdex Las Vegas Nov 15-19 * 
