Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!uknet!festival!dcs.ed.ac.uk!kc
From: kc@dcs.ed.ac.uk (Kenneth Cameron)
Subject: Re: Putting Copy Protection in the CPU
Message-ID: <CD0Cr6.7MC@dcs.ed.ac.uk>
Sender: cnews@dcs.ed.ac.uk (UseNet News Admin)
Organization: Department of Computer Science, University of Edinburgh
References: <1993Sep7.192738.20402@CSD-NewsHost.Stanford.EDU> <1993Sep7.203706.6994@midway.uchicago.edu> <rdippold.747437252@happy>
Date: Tue, 7 Sep 1993 23:47:29 GMT
Lines: 63

In article <rdippold.747437252@happy> rdippold@qualcomm.com (Ron "Asbestos" Dippold) writes:
>dave@blackjoke.bsd.uchicago.edu (Dave Griffith) writes:
>>thousand dollar packages.  However, built into the source code is a call that >periodically debits a chunk of electronic cash from some specified place for  
>>the user.  Public key cryptography is used to implement the (untraceable,  
>>unforgable, etc.) electronic cash, which can be vended much like charges for  
>
>Until the debit code or transmission code is removed...  It doesn't
>matter how secure you make the transaction if the software never
>actually does it.

When this thread started I posted an article about this working on games
console CDs. I think however that it may have been eaten so I'll repost the
basics and some new stuff based on this thread.

The idea was:

Games company Segtendo launches a new CD based games console. Worried about
pirates they do the following. The CD ASIC will only pass chunks of the
disk signed with the Segtendo private key into the memory. It uses the
Segtendo public key to confirm this. Further, each chunk has a code. Only if
this code is in the ASICs code table will the chunk get through. Some codes
are always present in the table (in rom). Others are placed in the table if:
A message is received by the console (either keyed in or by modem) which is
signed by Segtendo and has had the Consoles public key applied. (The public
key is sent to Segtendo when a code is requested, along with your credit
card number :-) The message contains the code.

The important ideas are:

You give away the CDs with playable demos (e.g. first level) and people buy
access codes for the full game.

The company has removed retailers out of the games sales path so cost can be
reduced. Some retailer whould hate this because they make more money on the
games than the consoles, but there are enough who would be happy to sell
consoles and not have to deal with stocking large numbers of games.

There will be no piracy so the cost can be reduced. Copying the CD gains
you nothing, you still have to pay to use it's contents. If you remove the
copy protection from the disc first the CD ASIC will not load it.

The company has complete control over what games are produced.

In the thread on CPU protection someone suggested replacing the CPU with
a clone without the protection. In this case it would be the CD ASIC. If it
and the console are sufficiently complex the pirates will not be interested.

There would also be no rental or trading of games. If you want to play the
full game on your console you have to pay. However the only way to get you
to buy is to put out demos.

Some people said that nobody would by copy-protected software. Tell that to
the people who have bought millions of Nintendo cartridges with the lock-out
(dongle) chip in them.

Copy protection may only work in a special kind of niche market. The console
industry is just such a market.

Disclaimer: I hate the above idea. I like the idea of paying for a licence to
use the software and beating the pirates. But I don't like the control it
gives the games company.
-- 
Kenneth@Edinburgh.ac.uk                                         kc@dcs.ed.ac.uk
