Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!psinntp!max.physics.sunysb.edu!pjhong
From: pjhong@cs.sunysb.edu (P. Joseph Hong)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: novice question
Date: 15 Sep 1993 19:37:29 GMT
Organization: Institute For Theoretical Physics
Lines: 56
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <277qtp$d66@max.physics.sunysb.edu>
References: <AEsJPbiaJ5@phm.mepi.msk.su>
NNTP-Posting-Host: clio.rad.sunysb.edu
X-Newsreader: Tin 1.1 PL3


clauded@sail.labs.tek.com asked:
>Does bitwise xor scrambling of data with a pseudo-random noise sequence
>(yielded by a selectable characteristic polynomial and seed state)
>provide decent data security?

Aph@aph.demon.co.uk (Andrew Haley) answered:
> No.  Knuth's _Seminumerical Algorithms_ mentions a way to break such
> a system; his scheme relates to a simple linear congruential
> generator, but it can be generalized to more elaborate schemes.
>
> If the noise sequence is truly random, the encryption is unbreakable,
> as proved by Shannon.

To which
andre@phm.mepi.msk.su (Dmitry A. Povarov) responded:
: Shannon's model shows XOR-based code is unbreakable IF and ONLY IF
: cryptoanalysist uses "chiphertext only" attack (enemy knows encrypted
: data, but not decrypted source).
: 
: If plaintext is known, it's too simple to obtain psevdo-random sequence,
: which could be used to decrypt other your messages, encrypted with the
: same key. If so, it doesn't matter which pseudo-random generator you use.

AND I SAY:

Andrew Haley is correct.  Sorry, Dmitry, you're wrong.

A cryptanalyst probably doesn't have the plaintext, but he can use
short strips of "probable plaintext".  By dragging the strip across
the ciphertext, the analyst gets a "probable pseudo-random sequence,"
which can be analyzed with Knuth's system.  Thus the RNG's parameters
can be estimated, and a pseudo-random sequence can be recovered.

This probable PRS can then be applied back to the ciphertext, and
if correct, the whole message will appear automagically!  If not,
then the cryptanalyst will try another spot in the message, and
proceed as above.  That's where computers come in...

With a truly random sequence, even with a known plaintext, the
random sequence cannot be compromised, because it does not have
any structure that can be used to predict the next (or the previous)
numbers in the sequence.  The only way to defeat the true random
sequence is to  FIND ANOTHER MESSAGE USING THE SAME PAD
and by pad I mean the random sequence of numbers.

Of course, anyone re-using a truly random sequence defeats the
purpose of a One-Time Pad, which is the main reason you need
a random sequence in the first place.

For more information on breaking OTP, see the references to the
VENONA Intercepts, discussed here some time back.


Joseph		pjhong@clio.rad.sunysb.edu
Use ADFGVX!
