Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp,talk.politics.crypto
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!swrinde!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: *FLASH* Moby SUBPOENA served
Message-ID: <strnlghtCDHprJ.B8J@netcom.com>
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <gradyCDHF2s.Gto@netcom.com> <gradyCDHKDC.3Lu@netcom.com>
Date: Fri, 17 Sep 1993 08:47:43 GMT
X-Original-Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp,talk.politics.crypto
Lines: 62
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:20168 sci.crypt:19363 alt.security.pgp:4895 talk.politics.crypto:106

In article <gradyCDHKDC.3Lu@netcom.com>, Grady Ward <grady@netcom.com> wrote:

> 
>It is not yet against the law to possess source code to PGP, the world's
>foremost encryption application in the United States.

Yes, sure, right.

Can you say:

RSADSI
RSAREF
Ripem
Commercial PGP
TechMail
MacRipem
TIS-PEM
Lotus Notes

etc.?

Note that all the above are fine in the US, and it is at least arguable that
some have both technical superiority over the vanilla PGP Grady is promoting
and a much larger user base.

Even Clipper seems much more cryptographically robust, but I leave it off
the above list because of the key escrow, which appalls some.

Grady and his colleagues are having trouble not because of some "superior"
system the government would like to suppress, but because unlike the above
systems, they decided to make their own rules using personal logic instead
of checking on and following the existing rules as others have done.

It is also a fair assumption that some of Grady's messages here were the
equivalent of waving a red flag in front of a bull--and we must assume the
readership of these newsgroups is uh, er, quite wide.

All in all, it seems to me (one man's opinion) that this is becoming a
wonderful illustration of the principle that sometimes being "right" is the
enemy of achieving one's objectives.

If the second subpoena mentioned by Grady is indeed as represented, this is
VERY serious business, because his associates are asked to appear in front
of a Grand Jury. This is not a simple inquiry, but the first step in a
prosecution. If the Grand Jury indicts, the matter can be extremely costly
and painful, and it would be hard, given the circumstances of the particular
case, and the many others (see the above list) who HAVE obeyed the rules and
aren't being prosecuted, for a civil liberties organization (IMHO) to see
its way clear to ponying up the money for a defense. This may end up not a
test of constitutional principles, but of the government's right to make
reasonable rules. I would be surprised if such a case can be won against
that right. But what do I know--I'm not an attorney.

Given the history of previous discussion in this group, let me suggest that
those with contrary opinions to mine ought to be able to express them
without any personal attacks. Let's hear what YOU think, not why you don't
like what I think.

David
-- 
David Sternlight         When the mouse laughs at the cat,
                         there is a hole nearby.--Nigerian Proverb
