Newsgroups: sci.crypt,,comp.org.eff.talk
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!sytex!fergp
From: fergp@sytex.com (Paul Ferguson)
Subject: Demarcation
Message-ID: <N3s20B3w165w@sytex.com>
Sender: bbs@sytex.com
Organization: Sytex Communications, Inc
Date: Sat, 18 Sep 1993 01:09:34 GMT
Lines: 44
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:19400 comp.org.eff.talk:20193

On Fri, 17 Sep 1993 19:09:35 GMT,
 <strnlght@netcom.com> David Sternlight writes -
 
> Following up on Shari Steele's message, it may be that the
> government's concern is with the import of IDEA without a
> license. Better check the legal issues and the events around
> this aspect, too.
 
I have been following the development of this very closely, and
I admit that I do not understand some of the secretive aspects of
the investigation's posture.
 
Although I readily admit that I'm no expert on import/export issues
regarding the ITAR and software, I really think that we're starting
to witness the advent of a technological coup d'etat which the
United States government simply cannot win.
 
Before you shake your head and dismiss the above statement, just try
to imagine, for a moment, how complex and far-reaching the global
internet is at present. And then think of how much growth will be
experienced in just the next year alone. You can trust me when I
tell you that it is growing by leaps and bounds, and there is no way
a government (or anyone else for that matter) can monitor all of the
traffic therein without instituting a truly Orwellian policy.
 
Personally, I just cannot envision the US governmnet believing for
a moment that it can control the transport of data (software,
information, whatever) across international boundaries. This includes
encryption software, pornagraphic materials, or even data containing
Sesame Street or Barney themes. As far as data is concerning, it is
extremely difficult to define a demarcation point, as far as transport
is concerned real-time. This is just not practical, nor possible.
 
This should be an interesting journey. I'm glad to be along for the
ride, no matter how bumpy. This is net.history.
 
The way we compute and internetwork will be affected forever.
 

Paul Ferguson               |   privacy \'pri-va-see\ n, pl, -cies;
Mindbank Consulting Group   |   1: the quality or state of being apart
Fairfax, Virginia USA       |   from others  2: secrecy
fergp@sytex.com             |
ferguson@icp.net            |   Privacy -- Use it or lose it.
