Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!spool.mu.edu!nigel.msen.com!yale.edu!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Subject: The Den of the Lion
Message-ID: <930921011609.624967@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Date: Tue, 21 Sep 1993 01:16:00 GMT
Lines: 60


>You have an interesting viewpoint, William, for somebody who works in the
>den of the lion so to speak. (DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL)

With many others, I am a guest in the den.  But the host is a lion indeed.  

I have been reasonably comfortable here because, until now, the behavior
of the lion has been very predictable.  Part of what bothers me about
the current situation is that the lion is not behaving according to form.

In addition to your observation, I had two private emails suggesting
that my comments were "critical" of NSA and inappropriate, considering
my address.

While I am critical of the behavior of the government when it comes to
crypto and civil rights, I do not intend to be critical of NSA.  In
fact, I am a great admirer of NSA.  I have good friends and respected
colleagues who work there.  I think that given the conflicting missions
that they have and the cloak of secrecy under which they must work,
they do an admirable job.  They are patriotic, loyal, diligent, not to
say over zealous, and dedicated.  We are lucky to have them and I have
said so in much wider forums than this.  

All of the evidence that I have suggests that the respect is mutual.
While nothing that I say seems to have any measureable impact on what
they do, they do give me audience, and they listen attentively and
respectfully.   

So, after I got those two emails, I went back and reread what I had said
to see whether or not I had inadvertantly crossed the line.  It is true
that I suggested that they are not above resorting to lying,
intimidation, coercion, and bribery.  It is equally true that if I were
to say similar things about any other group, it would be considered
"critical."  However, I am confident that no one at NSA would take that
personally, and I doubt that they would take any offense at all.  NSA is
a very special institution. 

That having been said, the agency is in a bind; they have conflicting
missions.  The agency has a culture and a momentum which is independent
of the good will of those that make it up.  Because of its power and its
secrecy, it is not responsive to democratic control.  

Such an institution is undemocratic, not to say antidemocratic.  Few
democracies can easily tolerate such an institution.  Under most
circumstances, ours could probably tolerate it better than most.
However, these are not normal times.  Never have we had so much
government and so little guiding principle.

Today, NSA is part of a government that is frightened, bloated, over
zealous, and on the verge of control.  In cooperation with those that
use a hundred armed men in flack jackets to serve a warrant and tanks to
tear gas children, NSA could be very dangerous.  Nobody understands that
better than those that work there.

So, when they deviate from well established patterns of behavior, it
behooves us all to try to understand why.

William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104; New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
1-0-ATT-0-700-WMURRAY; WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
