Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!news2.uunet.ca!rose!usenet
From: robert.heuman@rose.com (robert heuman)
Subject: Re: *FLASH* Moby SUBPOENA
Date: Wed, 22 Sep 1993 03:18:15 GMT
Message-ID: <1993Sep22.021818.7812@rose.com>
Sender: usenet@rose.com (Usenet Gateway)
X-Gated-By: Usenet <==> RoseMail Gateway (v1.70)
Organization: Rose Media Inc, Toronto, Ontario.
Lines: 38


I suggest that everyone who takes exception to this blatent (in my 
view) attempt to intimidate us all, wherever we may be located in the 
world, as long as we are US Citizens, flood the electronic 
communications channels to the President and Vice-President with our 
objections to trampling on our rights.  At the same time cross-post 
your messages to such organizations as Time Magazine and the New York 
Times or Washington Post.  All seem to have electronic addresses these 
days.  To ensure that they can validate that each message comes from a 
different individual, please be sure to use PGP to put your personal 
signature on the messages.  One would almost think that the government 
doesn't like the individual to have a right to privacy....

Of course, I AM in Canada..... and not <Grin> in the US of A.

The US Grand Jury system seems to be lacking in the rest of the world, 
for some strange reason.  Ever wonder why?  Where else can one get a 
group of individuals who know NOTHING about cryptography and little 
about individual privacy rights into a jury and PREVENT a defense from 
presenting a case?  Sounds more like Stalin's showcase courts, where 
he eliminated his opponents 'legally', than the American system of 
fair jury trials.  Even if NOT indicted by the Grand Jury, the mud 
sticks, and that may well be the intent, but they do say justice will 
prevail.  The question is WHOSE Justice.

PGP is an international collaboration these days, and no longer 
resembles version 1.0, which I gather is what is being spoken of in 
this case.  Please clarify, someone, as to exactly what the topic 
really is...  Is it the obsolete version 1.0, or something else, in 
which case it could just as easily be put together in Iceland or 
Equador.  Makes me wonder....

Chaos reigns.  Chao!

 * F-PROT is a GREAT product! USE IT before you send me software
---
   RoseReader 2.10  P001886 Entered at [ROSE]
   RoseMail 2.10 : RoseNet<=>Usenet Gateway : Rose Media 416-733-2285
