Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,sci.crypt,misc.legal,alt.security.pgp
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: NEW State Dept FLASH
Message-ID: <strnlghtCDqHxp.2rw@netcom.com>
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <gradyCDq2y6.J52@netcom.com>
Date: Wed, 22 Sep 1993 02:37:00 GMT
Lines: 51
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:20363 sci.crypt:19524 misc.legal:72665 alt.security.pgp:5024


Grady seems to be overreacting to the State Department letter, which seems
to me to be a model of rationality and restraint.

It says they heard that Austin Code Works is planning to export defense
articles. It points out that the law says crypto stuff (see below) is exempt
from the technical data exclusions many here have been trying to stretch to
cover crypto in their amateur lawyering. It says if you make or export
something on the munitions list you have to register. It contains no threats
but seems to be a helpful information letter.

One may argue that the State Department's interpretation of the regs
indicating that crypto is a) munitions and b) not exempt as technical data
is wrong, but let's recall that the State Department drafted, or
participated in drafting the regs. Thus if one disagrees, the only recourse
is the courts or Congress. They are not a third party interpreting the regs,
even-handedly with you or I interpreting the regs, but a party to the
drafting and the org charged with administering their part.

They say crypto includes source code, flow charts, verbal descriptions, etc.
Jim Bidzos made this point, and I echoed it at least six months ago in these
discussions, though I was shouted down, as I was in my assertion that crypto
wasn't exempt as technical data. Now we have an official statement from the
State Department, and I hope all those who questioned my bona fides,
attacked me personally, or were, in generaly nasty here are hanging their
heads in shame. (More likely they'll rationalize yet another nasty response,
personal attack, etc.--that's who they are.)

As to Grady's attempt at a reductio ad absurdum (the Captain Midnight
Decoder Ring), I suspect a letter to the State Department would reveal that
such an item is not on the munitions list and thus Ovaltine (or whoever it
was) is not required to register as a maker of defense articles (at least
not on that basis).

Let's all calm down. If the State Department's interpretation is correct,
Austin Code works has to register as a manufacturer of defense articles (a
reality check would be for someone to ask Jim Bidzos if RSADSI had to do
this). If they assert they have no plans to export the material, and place
the appropriate warnings on their product, that's where it should stop.

As for the Grand Jury, if they can demonstrate no violation of export laws,
then the only violation MIGHT be failure to register, and a prompt
registration would make that moot since this doesn't seem to be an egregious
case of deliberately flouting the law.

One man's opinion.

David
-- 
David Sternlight         When the mouse laughs at the cat,
                         there is a hole nearby.--Nigerian Proverb
