Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!nigel.msen.com!yale.edu!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Subject: Re: *FLASH* Moby SUBPOENA served
Message-ID: <930922214803.960991@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Date: Wed, 22 Sep 1993 21:48:00 GMT
Lines: 78


 >    Accept this and the battle is over.  

Accept it and the war is lost.

 >As I see it, Austin Code
 >Works is NOT a manufacturer (or exporter).  In this case Austin Code
 >Works is a PUBLISHER, and this distinction should be politely pointed
 >out to the State Department.

Since publishing is a constitutionally protected act, it is a very
important distinction.  Of course, in a world where the function of
a device is determined by software and where one can buy scanners
with OCR software for the low hundreds of dollars, it may well be a
distinction without a difference.

In its letter, the State Department construes the issue to the 
advantage of the government.  In the absence of any binding legal
precedent, they are entitled to do so.  Of course, others are 
equally entitled to construe it the other way.

The history is that, in this and similar issues, the government has
been careful never to submit the issue to the courts, where a 
binding precedent might be set.  In this particular case, the chances
are good that a court would elect to rule on the narrowest possible
grounds and find that there was no difference between publishing the
source code for programming a cryptographic device and manufacturing
the device.

[Indeed, as the government knows all too well, it is much worse.
Publishing the code has the potential to turn all existing devices
into powerful encryption devices, while manufacturing CLIPPER chips
entails no such risk.]

On the other hand, the court might agree to hear and rule on the
constitutional issues.  It might decide publishing is publishing,
without regard to media or subject and that it is a protected 
activity.  It might decide that, in the absence of any 
demonstration to the contrary, the state has no compelling 
interest in prior restraint of publications simply describing
mathematical techniques that might have cryptographic application.

It might decide that the Munitions Act was never intended to apply
to cryptography in the first place, or that there was a sufficient
difference between cryptography and real munitions that it should 
not.  

It might decide that the similarity between cryptography and
mathematics was more important than that between cryptography and
missiles, or that the line was so difficult to draw that restraints
intended to prevent the spread of crypto might have a chilling
effect on otherwise legitimate mathematical publishing.

It is  unlikely that a court would even agree to hear arguments on
these ideas, much less so decide.  Courts in general, and trial courts
in particular, prefer to rule on the narrowest possible grounds.  
On the other hand, the possibility that they might do so has, 
heretofore, been sufficiently great to keep the government out of 
court.  They simply have not been willing to risk that such a 
decision would go against them.  The consequences are all too
horrible to contemplate.

There is still a great distance between the State Department writing
letters and the Justice Department seeking subpoenae and really 
going to court.  But it is perhaps not much greater than that 
between these things and the relatively covert measures that the
government has restricted itself to in the past.  

At a conference on privacy and cryptography sponsored by CPSR a 
couple of months ago, John Podesta, the Clinton administration's
point man for these initiatives, was the luncheon speaker.  I asked
him if the administration was aware how much fear, uncertainty, and
doubt was being generated by the CLIPPER initiative.  He simply smiled
in the knowing manner that I have come to associate with minions of the NSA.

William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104; New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
1-0-ATT-0-700-WMURRAY; WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
