Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,sci.crypt,misc.legal,alt.security.pgp
Path: msuinfo!agate!spool.mu.edu!olivea!hal.com!decwrl!amd!amdahl!netcomsv!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: NEW State Dept FLASH (1st Amend angle)
Message-ID: <strnlghtCDtKG7.DoK@netcom.com>
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <gradyCDq2y6.J52@netcom.com> <Junger.158.748719718@samsara.law.cwru.edu> <strnlghtCDsM7n.Br7@netcom.com> <1993Sep23.125923.15842@umiami.ir.miami.edu>
Distribution: inet
Date: Thu, 23 Sep 1993 18:24:06 GMT
Lines: 40
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:20466 sci.crypt:19592 misc.legal:72744 alt.security.pgp:5081


Thanks to Michael Froomkin for his very clear (I'm tempted to say pellucidly
so) and persuasive posting. It allows the discussion to be advanced.

The argument being made is that the State Department regs contravene the
Constitution (in Junger and Froomkin's discussions).

Good. Suppose they do. The only processes I know for resolving these
assertions--and that's all they are, however logical and well grounded, just
as State's position is a set of assertions--is either Congressional or
Administrative reversal (repeal, nullification, modification) or a court
test.

If Grady set out to do this, and feels he has (or can get) the resources to
carry it through, more power to him. But the facts seem to suggest that like
many bright people, he thought his logic would carry him through, and he
acted without the advice of counsel familiar with the munitions and crypto
regs. Unwise.

As to the assertions in your, and Junger's posts, I think you will agree
that they are arguments, suggestions, or assertions, and not a statement of
how the law is administered by, say, State. They cannot be relied on, I
would think, beyond a notional "If this does escalate to a Constitutional
issue in court, I think you might win. But you might not."

If you accept the previous paragraph, then a message from, say, Junger
saying that it's his view that if it went to a Constitutional test Grady
might win would be unexceptionable. Unfortunately, Junger's posts read more
like "this is how it is" or as if HE were the Supreme Court rendering the
judgement. That plays well with those who agree with his position, but
doesn't advance the discussion with those who don't yet know how this thing
is going to come out. And it certainly isn't helpful to Grady unless his
entire purpose was to create and follow through on a court test. If that WAS
Grady's purpose (rather than to do a business deal), then it provides aid
and comfort, but little more.

David
-- 
David Sternlight         When the mouse laughs at the cat,
                         there is a hole nearby.--Nigerian Proverb
