Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!psinntp!suite.com!usenet
From: Jim-Miller@suite.com
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.protocols.kerberos,comp.security.misc
Subject: Re: private-key non-repudiation (long)
Date: 23 Sep 1993 19:30:12 GMT
Organization: Suite Software
Lines: 46
Message-ID: <27stg4$6mj@bilbo.suite.com>
References: <27r6m0$msm@bilbo.suite.com>
Reply-To: Jim-Miller@suite.com
NNTP-Posting-Host: nimrod.suite.com
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:19598 comp.protocols.kerberos:2310 comp.security.misc:5307


After thinking about it some more I realized there is no need to place the  
private-key certificates in a Directory.  As with tickets, certificates could  
be sent with the first non-repudiatable message to a given destination.  Or it  
could be sent with every non-repudiatable message, thus relieving the  
destination process from having to manage sender's certificates.

A sender could generate a new certificate as aften as he wished (could be built  
into kinit, for example).  The certificate key would no longer have to be a  
long term key.

It would work something like this:

Bob logs onto a system.  Through the process of logging in, Bob aquires a new  
ticket-granting-ticket, session key, new private-key certificate, and a  
corrosponding certificate nonce and certificate key pair.  Both the  
ticket-granting-ticket and the certificate are encrypted using the  
Authentication server's private key.  These items are cached the same way  
credentials are currently being cached.

Bob uses applications that send messages to other processes.  The messages are  
authenticated using the conventional Kerberos authentication mechanisms.   
Occasionally, Bob does something that requires him to send a non-repudiatable  
message.  In addition to the normal Kerberos ticket and/or authenticator, Bob  
also sends a message signature and his private-key certificate.  The recipient  
of the message authenticates the message and validates the message signature in  
the manner described in my previous posting.

To make archiving a little more convenient for the recipient, the format of the  
validated message signature can be changed to:

validated message signature = 
	{random,
         timestamp,
         original message signature,
         sender's certificate,
         checksum
        }Authentication server private key

Now all that the recipient would need to archive would be the original message  
and the validated message signature.


As before, any and all comments are welcome,

Jim_Miller@suite.com
