Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,sci.crypt,misc.legal,alt.security.pgp,alt.censorship
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!cs.uiuc.edu!kadie
From: kadie@cs.uiuc.edu (Carl M. Kadie)
Subject: Re: NEW State Dept FLASH (1st Amend angle)
Message-ID: <CDtuBG.BqE@cs.uiuc.edu>
Organization: University of Illinois, Dept. of Comp. Sci., Urbana, IL
References: <gradyCDq2y6.J52@netcom.com> <Junger.158.748719718@samsara.law.cwru.edu> <strnlghtCDsM7n.Br7@netcom.com> <1993Sep23.125923.15842@umiami.ir.miami.edu> <strnlghtCDtKG7.DoK@netcom.com>
Distribution: inet
Date: Thu, 23 Sep 1993 21:57:15 GMT
Lines: 91
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:20504 sci.crypt:19628 misc.legal:72770 alt.security.pgp:5117 alt.censorship:19305

Are the State Department improper content-based regulation? Here is a
bit of the case law on content-based regulation of expression.

Also, note that some of the precedents cited are law only in the 7th
Circuit.

- Carl "not a lawyer" Kadie

[From: _UWM Post v. Board of Regents of University of Wisconsin_,
774 F.  Supp. 1163 (E.D. Wis. 1991)]

In Police Department of Chicago v. Mosley, the Supreme Court explained
the great import of protecting speech from content-based regulation.

[A]bove all else, the First Amendment means that government has no
power to restrict expression because of its message, its ideas, its
subject matter, or its content.  To permit the continued building of
our politics and culture, and to assure self-fulfillment for each
individual, our people are guaranteed the right to express any
thought, free from government censorship.  The essence of this
forbidden censorship is content control.  Any restriction on
expressive activity because of its content would completely undercut
the "profound national commitment to the principle that debate on
public issues should be uninhibited, robust, and wide-open."
408 U.S. 92, 95-96 (1972) (citations omitted).

Although the First Amendment generally protects speech from
content-based regulation, it does not protect all speech.  The Supreme
Court has removed certain narrowly limited categories of speech from
First Amendment protection.  These categories of speech are considered
to be of such slight social value that any benefit that may be derived
from them is clearly outweighed by their costs to order and morality.
Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315 U.S. 568, 572 (1942).  The categories
include fighting words, obscenity and, to a limited extent, libel.
Collin v. Smith, 578 F.2d 1197, 1202 (7th Cir.1978), cert.  denied,
439 U.S. 916 (1978).

[...]

Moreover, the Seventh Circuit has stated that a balancing approach is
appropriate only for content-neutral speech regulation.  See American
Bookseller Ass'n. Inc, v. Hudnut, 771 F.2d 323 (7th Cir.1985).  In
American Booksellers, the Seventh Circuit stated:

The Court sometimes balances the value of speech against the costs of
its restriction, but it does this by category of speech and not by the
content of partic ular works."  See id, at 331-332.  In support of
this assertion, the American Booksellers court cited John Hart Ely,
"Flag Desecration: A Case Study in the Roles of Categorization and
Balancing in First Amendment Analysis," 88 Harv. L.Rev. 1482 (1975),
and Geoffrey R. Stone,, "Restrictions of Speech Because of its
Content: The Peculiar Case of Subject-Matter Restrictions," 46 U. Chi.
L.Rev. 81 (1978).

Professor Stone's article identifies two categories of governmental
restrictions of expression: content-neutral restrictions and
content-based restrictions.  Professor Stone defined content-neutral
restrictions as those which "restrict communication without regard to
the message conveyed."  See id.  at 81.  Examples of these
restrictions include ' '[l]aws prohibiting noisy speeches near a
hospital, banning the erection of any billboards in residential
communities, or requiring disclosure of the names of leafletteers."
Id. "In judging the constitutionality of such restrictions, the
Supreme Court engages in a balancing of first amendment interests
against competing government concerns."  Id.

Content-based restrictions, on the other hand, "restrict communication
because of the message conveyed."  Id. Professor Stone listed as
examples of these types of restrictions "[l]aws prohibiting the
publication of specific types of 'confidential' information,
forbidding the hiring of teachers who advocate violent overthrow of
the government, or banning the display of the swastika in certain
neighborhoods."  Id. The supreme Court has been especially wary of
this sort of regulation and has upheld content-based restrictions of
speech only when they fall within one of the well-defined, narrow
classes of unprotected speech.  As Professor Stone noted:

*12 The Court has, to be sure, permitted content-based restrictions
when the speech at issue has fallen within one of those special and
limited categories of expression, such as obscenity, false statements
of fact, or fighting words, that the Court has found to be of such low
value in terms of the historical, philosophical, and political
purposes of the amendment as to be entitled to less than full
Constitutional protection.  Outside this "low value" realm, however,
the Court has embraced a stringently speech-protective set of
standards, sustaining content-based restrictions of "fully 'protected"
expression in only the most extraordinary circumstances.
 Id. at 82 (footnotes omitted).
-- 
Carl Kadie -- I do not represent any organization; this is just me.
 = kadie@cs.uiuc.edu =
