Newsgroups: sci.crypt,misc.legal,talk.politics.crypto
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!math.fu-berlin.de!zib-berlin.de!news.dfn.de!rzsun2.informatik.uni-hamburg.de!bontchev
From: bontchev@news.informatik.uni-hamburg.de (Vesselin Bontchev)
Subject: Re: Reply to DS on indescretion (was Re: NEW State Dept FLASH)
Message-ID: <CDuMo7.H72@informatik.uni-hamburg.de>
Followup-To: sci.crypt,misc.legal,talk.politics.crypto
Sender: news@informatik.uni-hamburg.de (Mr. News)
Organization: University of Hamburg, Germany
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL9]
References: <strnlghtCDtw56.J2B@netcom.com>
Date: Fri, 24 Sep 1993 08:09:41 GMT
Lines: 45
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:19648 misc.legal:72794 talk.politics.crypto:359

David Sternlight (strnlght@netcom.com) writes:

> More accurately I should have said (and the context of all the discussions
> make this clear) export without a license is illegal and Grady/Austin not
> only has not got a license but also hasn't applied for one.

Do you happen to know about any cases in which the companies that were
served the subpoena orders have exported cryptographic devices without
a license? In fact, ViaCrypt has clearly stated that they will sell
the software ONLY in the USA and will comply with the restrictions of
the State Department. Can't you see that in those particular cases
the spooks are concerned with making strong crypto available to the
REGULAR USA FOLKS and not with export of some super-secret crypto
algorithms? Besides, all those things are freely available outside the
USA.

And, BTW, since when the -intent- to export some controlled substances
requires a license or is punishable?

> Sorry if the shorthand misled you.

I was afraid that it could mislead others as well, so I made sure I
had it corrected.

> By the way, some here would object to the way you edited the Newsgroups list
> since they'd argue this conversation belongs in talk.politics.crypto, not
> sci.crypt, but I'm going to leave it where you put it.

Problem is, of the newsgroups that were present in the original
message, our site gets only sci.crypt and alt.security.pgp - and the
message was inappropriate for both of them. Also, in order to be able
to post a message, I must post it to at least one newsgroup that we
get (and even I have to put it first in the Newsgroups list, I think),
otherwise I get an error message and my article gets posted to
$HOME/dead.letters. You are right that talk.politics.crypto is also an
appropriate newsgroup for these messages (although it is yet another
group that we don't get), so I am including it too.

Regards,
Vesselin
--
Vesselin Vladimirov Bontchev          Virus Test Center, University of Hamburg
Tel.:+49-40-54715-224, Fax: +49-40-54715-226      Fachbereich Informatik - AGN
< PGP 2.3 public key available on request. > Vogt-Koelln-Strasse 30, rm. 107 C
e-mail: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de        22527 Hamburg, Germany
