Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!psinntp!suite.com!usenet
From: Jim-Miller@suite.com
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.protocols.kerberos,comp.security.misc
Subject: Re: private-key non-repudiation (long)
Date: 24 Sep 1993 19:36:11 GMT
Organization: Suite Software
Lines: 35
Message-ID: <27vi7b$rj0@bilbo.suite.com>
References: <27stg4$6mj@bilbo.suite.com>
Reply-To: Jim-Miller@suite.com
NNTP-Posting-Host: nimrod.suite.com
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:19676 comp.protocols.kerberos:2315 comp.security.misc:5314


(Another day, another idea)

One problem with the private-key non-repudiation mechanism I've been describing  
is that everybody's archives of validated message signatures become  
(potentially) compromised if the Authentication server's private key becomes  
compromised.

Here are some possible solutions to this problem.

1) Extend the certificate creation protocol to enable an application to acquire  
a second private-key certificate from an Authentication server higher up in the  
Authentication server hierarchy.  The application can then use this second  
certificate to periodically send itself a non-repudiatable message that  
contains a hash of the current contents of its message archive.  The validated  
message signature the application receives back from the remote Authentication  
server can be used to prove the integrity of the application's message archive  
(at a given time), even if the local Authentication server becomes compromised.

2) Periodically hash your message archive and send the hash to Bellcore's  
timestamping service.


In either case, it might be sufficient to periodically hash only the  
incremental changes to your message archive, rather than the entire message  
archive.


Well, I'm now three days into this non-repudiation scheme.  I haven't received  
any comments on it yet, which means the entire scheme could be fatally flawed  
in some way I haven't yet noticed.  I supposed I should stop trying to enhance  
it until I find out whether it is even viable. <grin>

Jim_Miller@suite.com

