Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,sci.crypt,misc.legal,alt.security.pgp
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: NEW State Dept FLASH
Message-ID: <strnlghtCDvo4p.1vy@netcom.com>
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <gradyCDq2y6.J52@netcom.com> <KIM.93Sep24125636@ray.morningstar.com> <27vkhr$7ge@ns1.arlut.utexas.edu>
Distribution: inet
Date: Fri, 24 Sep 1993 21:38:48 GMT
Lines: 47
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:20557 sci.crypt:19687 misc.legal:72851 alt.security.pgp:5169

In article <27vkhr$7ge@ns1.arlut.utexas.edu>,
Richard Bainter <pug@arlut.utexas.edu> wrote:

>
>You mean ANY manufacturer of a cryptographic equipment must register? (The
>original letter mentioned individuals as well as companies.) This
>seems a bit extreme to me. I can *almost* understand requiring it if
>they are exporting, but if all they are doing is doing some simple
>mathmatical calculations, why should they register with the government?

You don't HAVE to register. If it turns out you should have and didn't, you
can be penalized. If what you're making is a Captain Midnight decoder ring,
or ROT13, it's unlikely the government would spend the time and money to
make a case even if they thought there was one.

In Los Angeles this year they imposed an annual fee for use of the public
hiking trails. Some people don't pay or register. If they get caught, they
get fined. The system works fairly well because the fines are high enough to
be inconvenient.

In many cities of the world you buy a ticket for public transport at a
machine. Nobody checks when you enter or leave the bus or trolley, but spot
checkers ask for tickets randomly, and if they catch you you get fined.

You don't HAVE to drive below the speed limit, but if you don't and you get
caught, you get fined or worse. So too with car pool lanes--in fact most of
our administrative law enforcemnt is of this kind. So too here. In the
instant case, State told them the rules and its up to them if they think
they have to register or not, with the possibility of penalties if they
guess wrong or ignore the requirement, and are caught. Nothing to do with
exports but with whether they're an arms manufacturer AS DEFINED IN THE
RULES and thus must register or not.

Separately there's some sort of investigation going on with a Grand Jury,
and they have been subpoenaed to come and bring records. We don't know if
they are being considered as a potential accused, as a witness, or what.
That does involve crypto exports, but they haven't been accused of that,
just asked to appear in connection with an investigation. Who knows, maybe
they're investigating Mad Abu O'Reilly Pavlovich the terrorist and have some
reason to believe he had contact with some U.S. entities under a false name
and are trying to get enough evidence to indict HIM.  :-)

David

-- 
David Sternlight         When the mouse laughs at the cat,
                         there is a hole nearby.--Nigerian Proverb
