Newsgroups: sci.crypt,misc.legal,talk.politics.crypto
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: Reply to DS on indescretion (was Re: NEW State Dept FLASH)
Message-ID: <strnlghtCDvn5o.zs@netcom.com>
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <strnlghtCDtw56.J2B@netcom.com> <CDuMo7.H72@informatik.uni-hamburg.de>
Date: Fri, 24 Sep 1993 21:17:47 GMT
X-Original-Newsgroups: sci.crypt,misc.legal,talk.politics.crypto
Lines: 52
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:19682 misc.legal:72847 talk.politics.crypto:374

In article <CDuMo7.H72@informatik.uni-hamburg.de>,
Vesselin Bontchev <bontchev@news.informatik.uni-hamburg.de> wrote:

>
>Do you happen to know about any cases in which the companies that were
>served the subpoena orders have exported cryptographic devices without
>a license? In fact, ViaCrypt has clearly stated that they will sell
>the software ONLY in the USA and will comply with the restrictions of
>the State Department. Can't you see that in those particular cases
>the spooks are concerned with making strong crypto available to the
>REGULAR USA FOLKS and not with export of some super-secret crypto
>algorithms? Besides, all those things are freely available outside the
>USA.

The subpoena was for discovery and not any accusation. The State Department
letter was a statement of the rules, not an accusation. In this country a
grand jury can investigate anyone anytime (but it takes some evidence to
return an indictment that will put one in court). Grand Jury proceedings are
secret so that such investigations don't tarnish anyone's reputation (a la
the bad old days of Senator McCarthy). Note that it was not the government
but Grady and colleagues who revealed, nay published here, the subpoenas and
State letter. Nothing wrong with that, but their actions lifted what could
otherwise have been a completely private proceeding unless and until they
were indicted.

In other words, there's no accusation of exporting crypto here. There's a
process for getting (and in the case of the State Dept. letter, giving)
information. The accusation would be in the form of a grand jury returning
an indictment, if it does. It hasn't thus far.

>
>And, BTW, since when the -intent- to export some controlled substances
>requires a license or is punishable?

They haven't been required to get a license or been punished legally.
They've been told what defines a manufacture of defense articles,
particularly in the crypto context, and told that if meet that definition
they must register. Nothing to do with exports. Separately, they've been
asked to (as the British say) assist the police with their inquiries, i.e.
bring information to a grand jury investigating whether there is probable
cause to return an indictment for a violation.

It is only after the indictment is returned that the court process begins.
In fact, all Austin, et al do in the Grand Jury hearing is answer questions,
which includes producing documents, etc. There is no legal penalty or
verdict, only a document that says "we think there may be a crime
here--let's go to trial" in effect, or no consequence if the grand jury
declines to indict.

-- 
David Sternlight         When the mouse laughs at the cat,
                         there is a hole nearby.--Nigerian Proverb
