Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!olivea!charnel!rat!decwrl!csus.edu!netcom.com!straits
From: straits@netcom.com (Stewart C. Strait)
Subject: Security through obscurity
Message-ID: <straitsCDzyKs.35q@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL8]
Date: Mon, 27 Sep 1993 05:14:51 GMT
Lines: 64



The idea of security through obscurity can be looked at using a bit of
information theory.  If you have a secret protected by some
combination of a cryptosystem, its key, and other procedures, it makes
sense to think about how many bits of information your adversary needs
to defeat the various parts of your overall security scheme.

Security through obscurity means relying on things other than
arbitrary keys for a large part of your security.  The big danger is
that your cryptosystem and procedures may really be described by very
few bits of information.  This is because they must be internally
consistent to work, and because you and your adversary probably think
alike.  Your adversary may make a few preliminary tests, guess a few
items, and reconstruct a near copy of your system by deduction.  Even
if it isn't a perfect copy, a little cryptographic maturity may let
him learn your secret in spite of misunderstanding or ignoring some of
the bells and whistles of your system.

For example, if you encrypt with some weak system, say XORing the
plaintext with the output of an ill-chosen pseudo-random number
generator, writing the plaintext backwards and using "KW" for "QU" all
the time won't help you much.  (Unless some inexperienced person of my
sort is the adversary. :-)  )

On the other hand, let's suppose you like XORing with your bad RNG,
but you're also fond of the Playfair system and of columnar
transposition.  None of these are very good systems alone, nor is any
one superenciphered with another all that formidable.  Also suppose
you EXCLUSIVELY use the keyphrase "too mysterious for words" for these
systems, and your adversary knows it.  So far your secrets sound like
an open book.  Now suppose you decide to be very thorough, and pass
each plaintext in series through 100 rounds of encryption, each one
being one of the three systems above, always with the known key.
Suppose the only restriction on the sequence of systems used is that
you never XOR twice in a row.  Your security might well now be very
good.  The real key is the sequence of systems, for which there are
between 2**100 and 3**100 possibilities.  The point is that there are
a _lot_ of obscure details that are vital and need not be consistent.

A non-crypto example is hiding your door key under the doormat.  If
you do this at home, it gives terrible security.  On the other hand,
if NSA or your favorite large organization hides keys under doormats,
and they are careful to have thousands of doormats and not hide very
many keys near the locks they match, their security may be
substantial.  Their adversary may lose a lot of agents because they
look under too many doormats and try keys in too many locks.  Picking
the locks, breaking them, or bribing people to give you keys may be
easier.

A last example:  Many people are dismayed because some huge
organization they care about has very inconsistent security
procedures.  Inconsistency is not, IMO, the real problem.  Any large,
unwieldy organization is guaranteed to have numerous defects in its
security.  A strong effort to be consistent is likely to cause a few
of the defects to be copied system-wide rather than corrected.  A
consistent, system-wide defect loses the protection of obscurity and
is catastrophic.  I suggest that large organizations are rather
indifferent to consistency in their security measures because all the
top managers who really care are at least unconsciously aware of the
danger.

It all depends on how much real information is involved in the
"obscurity", and how much effort your adversary needs to obtain it.
