Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!xlink.net!math.fu-berlin.de!news.rrz.uni-hamburg.de!rzsun2.informatik.uni-hamburg.de!bontchev
From: bontchev@news.informatik.uni-hamburg.de (Vesselin Bontchev)
Subject: Re: Privacy-Enhanced Mail: Crypto Problems
Message-ID: <CE0rqC.7zy@informatik.uni-hamburg.de>
Sender: news@informatik.uni-hamburg.de (Mr. News)
Organization: University of Hamburg, Germany
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL9]
References: <626@organic_sw.win.net>
Date: Mon, 27 Sep 1993 15:44:36 GMT
Lines: 42

David K. Merriman (merriman@organic_sw.win.net) writes:

> >>PROPOSITION IV: A public key encrypted message should not reveal who
> >>     has signed it or who is able to decrypt it.
> >

> Would that include (encrypted) identification of the sender?

I'm not sure that I understand the question. Regarding the "signature"
part, I meant that the message must be first signed and then the
result encrypted. This way, you cannot tell who has signed the
message, without first decrypting it - actually you even cannot tell
whether the message has any signatures at all. PGP already does this.
With PEM, the signature is outside the encrypted block and resides in
a special header, for everybody to see it. And it must be present -
you cannot send messages that are not signed (although you can send
messages that are not encrypted). Somebody once told me that this is
so because PEM has been designed with authentication (not encryption)
in mind and that it was thought you wouldn't even want to accept
messages that are not authentified.

Regarding the "sender" part, I meant that the encrypted messages must
not be preceded by a packet that says who can decrypt them, but with
an encrypted packet with known contents. When you receive such a
message, the decryption program tries to decrypt this packet using
your secret key and verifies whether the result matches the known
contents of the packet. If it doesn't, it telly you "sorry, your
private key doesn't seem to decrypt this message; it is probably meant
for somebody else" - but doesn't tell you who this "somebody else" is.

I was contacted by one of the developpers of PGP and he told me that
they have in mind something like that (hiding the recepient and even
the fact that the stuff is PGP-encrypted), although it will be
achieved with slightly different means.

Regards,
Vesselin
--
Vesselin Vladimirov Bontchev          Virus Test Center, University of Hamburg
Tel.:+49-40-54715-224, Fax: +49-40-54715-226      Fachbereich Informatik - AGN
< PGP 2.3 public key available on request. > Vogt-Koelln-Strasse 30, rm. 107 C
e-mail: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de        22527 Hamburg, Germany
