Newsgroups: sci.crypt,misc.legal,talk.politics.crypto
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!xlink.net!math.fu-berlin.de!zib-berlin.de!news.dfn.de!rzsun2.informatik.uni-hamburg.de!bontchev
From: bontchev@news.informatik.uni-hamburg.de (Vesselin Bontchev)
Subject: Re: Reply to DS on indescretion (was Re: NEW State Dept FLASH)
Message-ID: <CE0qrt.7no@informatik.uni-hamburg.de>
Followup-To: misc.legal,talk.politics.crypto
Sender: news@informatik.uni-hamburg.de (Mr. News)
Organization: University of Hamburg, Germany
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL9]
References: <strnlghtCDvnLq.1DJ@netcom.com>
Date: Mon, 27 Sep 1993 15:23:52 GMT
Lines: 75
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:19761 misc.legal:72973 talk.politics.crypto:420

[followups out of sci.crypt]

David Sternlight (strnlght@netcom.com) writes:

> The fax was a last-minute thing. It wasn't even addressed to the authorities
> who summoned them to the Grand Jury, but to someone at the NSA. Now some may

The fax was just part of a chain of events. The process that has lead
to the subpoena orders and the letter from the State Department has
been probably started earlier. The fax that Grady quoted was a reply
to some person from the Fort, which implies that there have been other
communications.

Besides, have you heard about the "telephone law"? It was popular in
the former communist countries... It just takes a phone conversation
(no written orders, no evidence) from some authoritarian organization
(the Central Committee, the KGB, why not the NSA) to put the whole
legal machine in action in an attempt to squash somebody by "legal
means"...

Yes, yes, I know. I am inclined to reason in the above way, because I
have lived 30 years under a communist regime. Of course, something
like that would never happen in the USA; the US government that David
trusts so much would never do such thing... Or would they?

> see some Machavellian NSA directing this play-by-play, but I don't believe
> that's how it works,

Yeah, yeah, it certainly doesn't work that way...

> and what's more the NSA has no role in enforcing the
> ITAR--that's up to the FBI, Justice Department, etc. Thus it can be argued

They don't care about law enforcement. They are just -using- it to
achieve their goals (no widespread good crypto - even not in the USA).

> Second, we have no idea what evidence the government has, nor what or who
> they're actually investigating. It is common for someone who might have some
> evidence about someone else committing a crime to be subpoenaed to appear,
> often with records and documents. I think some of the reaction I've seen
> here has been a mixture of conspiracy theory, paranoia, and unthinking
> panic.

Well, at least in this case we'll see whether we are all paranoid, or
you are too naive. It will just take some time, but we'll see it.

> >The LASD has quelled all LA-based investigations. The Ventura DA has been
> >censured (but not moved). The heirs cannot get the estate back.
> >
> >The government bears watching. 

> This was criminal behavior (in my view) of a small number of police acting
> under color of authority.

Yeah, yeah. When some part of the government goofs up, it's always
some small number of people acting on their own and not supported by
the rest of the government. Like in the case when the NSA tried to
stop the publication of the RSA paper - it turned out to be a single
NSA employee (maybe a former employee now) who has acted on his own...

> life. But it wasn't a "government conspiracy." And it bears little

In most cases there no government conspiracy. There is just a bunch of
bureaucrats, who are worried about their jobs and are doing what is in
their power to preserve them. The problem becomes serious to the
public only when the bureaucrats are too many, or have too much power,
or both.

Regards,
Vesselin
--
Vesselin Vladimirov Bontchev          Virus Test Center, University of Hamburg
Tel.:+49-40-54715-224, Fax: +49-40-54715-226      Fachbereich Informatik - AGN
< PGP 2.3 public key available on request. > Vogt-Koelln-Strasse 30, rm. 107 C
e-mail: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de        22527 Hamburg, Germany
