Newsgroups: sci.crypt,misc.legal,talk.politics.crypto
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!xlink.net!math.fu-berlin.de!mailgzrz.TU-Berlin.DE!zib-berlin.de!news.dfn.de!rzsun2.informatik.uni-hamburg.de!bontchev
From: bontchev@news.informatik.uni-hamburg.de (Vesselin Bontchev)
Subject: Re: Reply to DS on indescretion (was Re: NEW State Dept FLASH)
Message-ID: <CE0pur.7E2@informatik.uni-hamburg.de>
Followup-To: misc.legal,talk.politics.crypto
Sender: news@informatik.uni-hamburg.de (Mr. News)
Organization: University of Hamburg, Germany
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL9]
References: <strnlghtCDvn5o.zs@netcom.com>
Date: Mon, 27 Sep 1993 15:04:02 GMT
Lines: 90
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:19760 misc.legal:72971 talk.politics.crypto:419

Follow-ups out of the crypto newsgroups.

David Sternlight (strnlght@netcom.com) writes:

> >Do you happen to know about any cases in which the companies that were
> >served the subpoena orders have exported cryptographic devices without
> >a license? In fact, ViaCrypt has clearly stated that they will sell
> >the software ONLY in the USA and will comply with the restrictions of
> >the State Department. Can't you see that in those particular cases
> >the spooks are concerned with making strong crypto available to the
> >REGULAR USA FOLKS and not with export of some super-secret crypto
> >algorithms? Besides, all those things are freely available outside the
> >USA.

> The subpoena was for discovery and not any accusation.

Well, I didn't write anything about accusation above. Nevertheless...

> The State Department
> letter was a statement of the rules, not an accusation.

.. I find it bizzare that the State Department was so concerned about
the rules in Grady's case and not when, say, BYTE published the text
of a program for DES encryption.

> In other words, there's no accusation of exporting crypto here. There's a

Wanna bet that there will be some kind of accusation resulting out of
all that fuss?

> They haven't been required to get a license or been punished legally.
> They've been told what defines a manufacture of defense articles,
> particularly in the crypto context, and told that if meet that definition
> they must register. Nothing to do with exports. Separately, they've been
> asked to (as the British say) assist the police with their inquiries, i.e.
> bring information to a grand jury investigating whether there is probable
> cause to return an indictment for a violation.

Technically speaking, there are two different issues here. The Grand
Jury issuing a subpoena order in one thing and the State Department
informating Grady that his activities require a license (according to
them) is another. The Grand Jury does not necessarily have anything to
do with the action from the State Department and vice versa.

However (speculation mode on), the following explanation seems very
probable to me. Grady has informed some NSA bureaucrat about his
intentions. The NSA bureaucrat has told him "don't do that". Grady,
instead of replying "Yessir!", informs them that, according to him,
there's nothing wrong in what he intends to do.

As it is their duty, the NSA bureaucrat informs their supperior. Maybe
the question is give a short time for consideration during one of the
regular meetings. It doesn't happen for the first time. Some wiseguy
is trying to be smart. How have we dealt with such problems in the
past? Is the wiseguy some big company with lots of money? If so,
suggest to them that they might not get that juicy gov' contract they
are expecting to and there might be some other restrictions on the
other products they intend to export.

Ah, so he's one of those small companies? No problem, use the tried
and true method of legal hassle. After all, nobody's perfect; there
-has- to be some catch or regulation he has overlooked. Which one?
Well, should we bother? There are other bureaucratic organizations,
who get paid to do that. Just make sure you inform all of them - and
even a nice psychological touch - inform them in such way, that their
inquiries drop on the poor guy one after another, in a perfect timing.
That will teach him to play smartass...

Hello, State Department? Hello, Bob, here's John, from the Fort. It
has come to our attention that a company called ACW exports or intends
to export some crypto stuff. Now, enforcing the laws here is none of
our business, and besides, we all know that the stuff is already
available abroad, but after all, -you- made those regulations, so we
decided to keep you informed when somebody is breaking them. Nice
talking to you, see you one of these days. Click.

A couple of conversations like the above have also probably initiated
the Grand Jury investigation ("Naw, it's probably nothing serious, but
sometimes crypto stuff is connected with affairs like espionage and so
on... We just thought you'd like to look at the case.").

[speculation mode off]

Regards,
Vesselin
--
Vesselin Vladimirov Bontchev          Virus Test Center, University of Hamburg
Tel.:+49-40-54715-224, Fax: +49-40-54715-226      Fachbereich Informatik - AGN
< PGP 2.3 public key available on request. > Vogt-Koelln-Strasse 30, rm. 107 C
e-mail: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de        22527 Hamburg, Germany
