Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!mnemosyne.cs.du.edu!nyx!colin
From: colin@nyx.cs.du.edu (Colin Plumb)
Subject: Book: Differential Cryptanalysis of the Data Encryption Standard
Message-ID: <1993Sep28.094801.19944@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu>
X-Disclaimer: Nyx 's hardware; my words.
Sender: usenet@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu (netnews admin account)
Organization: Nyx, Public Access Unix at U. of Denver Math/CS dept.
Date: Tue, 28 Sep 93 09:48:01 GMT
Lines: 88

Here's a book that some people might find interesting.



Differential Cryptanalysis of the Data Encryption Standard

by Eli Biham and Adi Shamir
(c) 1993 Springer-Verlag.  ISBN 0-387-97930-1, 3-540-97930-1
188 pages  QA 76.9.A25B54 1993

This also includes attacks on numerous DES variants.  Replacing XOR
with addition, the larger-block-size Generalized DES, perturbing the
P permutation, the S-boxes, or even the *order* of the S-boxes weaken
DES significantly.  The DES appears to be carefully crafted for
resistance to differential cryptanalysis, and changing it is NOT
a good idea.

Enlarging the key does strengthen the DES somewhat, but even
with completely independent keys in each round (48*16 = 768
bits of key) the DES can be broken by either a known plaintext
or a chosen plaintextwith up to 2^61 steps.

Quoted from the Preface:
"Remark: Shortly before this book was sent to the publishers, Don
Coppersmith (who was a member of the original DES design team at
IBM in the early 70's) revealed that his team was aware of
differential cryptanalysis back in 1974, and designed the S boxes
and the permutation in order to optimally defeat it.  They had to
keep this information secret for 18 years for national security
reasons since it was such a potent form of cryptanalysis, but decided
to break the silence after we rediscovered and published it.  In
response to our question, Don refused to reveal whether this is the
strongest attack on the DES that his team was aware of, but reiterated
his belief that the DES is still viable."

And from chapter 2, Results:
"An Advanced form of differential cryptanalysis can also break the full
16-round DES.  The data analysis phase requires 2^37 time and negligible
space by analyzing 2^36 ciphertexts obtained from a larger pool of 2^47
chosen plaintexts.  An interesting feature of the new attack is that it
can be applied with the same complexity and success probability even if
the key is frequently changed and thus the collected ciphertexts are
derived from many different keys.  The attack can be carried out
incrementally, and one of the keys can be computed in real time while
it is still valid.  This is particularly important in attacks on
bank authentication schemes, in which the opponent needs only one
opportunity to forge a multi-million dollar wire transfer, but has to
act quickly before the next key changeover invalidates his message.
This is the first published attack which is capable of breaking the full
DES in less than the complexity of exhaustive search of 2^55 keys."

Unfortunately for the elegance of the attack, Michael Wiener's
brute-force key exhaustion engine ($1 million for 3.5 hours; less
time for more money) is probably more practical if someone is
really trying to pull this off.

Oh, for those actually interested, what are actually needed are
plaintext pairs with a chosen xor.  In some situations, this is
easier to come by than fully general chosen plaintexts.

But what is interesting is how weak a half dozen ciphers, designed
without knowledge of differential cryptanalysis, are.
Attacks are demonstrated for:
Feal-8, Feal-N, Feal-NX
Khafre (16 and 24 rounds)
REDOC-II (one to four rounds; the standard is 10)
LOKI (up to 11 rounds; also the key space is only 2^60, not 2^64)
Lucifer

They have also attacked the Snefru hash function (completely
independently of the S-box used), N-hash with 3n rounds, and
the hash modes of LOKI.

GDES is particularly embarassing.  To quote:
"The recommended parameters for GDES are q=8 and n=16. ...
The recommended n=16 variant is breakable with six ciphertexts
in 0.2 seconds on a personal computer.  If independent keys
are used then it is breakable with 16 ciphertexts in three
seconds on the same computer."

I haven't absorbed it all, but it's fascinating reading, and very
enlightening.  The conclusion that I derive from is it that ciphers
derived from the DES-like transformation of taking a chunk of the
input, applying a one-way transformation, and exclusive-oring it
with the other part of the input, then shuffling and repeating,
are weak unless the one-way function is chosen VERY carefully.
--
	-Colin
