From raylau@MIT.EDU  Sun Jun  5 11:51:41 1994
Received: from MIT.EDU (MIT.MIT.EDU) by scss3.cl.msu.edu (4.1/4.7)  id AA28324; Sun, 5 Jun 94 11:51:41 EDT
Received: from TMS-E40-PORT-7.MIT.EDU by MIT.EDU with SMTP
	id AA18404; Sun, 5 Jun 94 11:51:29 EDT
Message-Id: <9406051551.AA18404@MIT.EDU>
Date: Sun, 05 Jun 94 11:51:12 EST
From: raylau@MIT.EDU (Raymond Lau)
To: ripem-dev@scss3.cl.msu.edu
Subject: Re: Web of trust and PEM

I've personally taken a wait and see attitude on this.  I have always
felt that the benefit of PEM was in certificates and that RIPEM should
support certificate chains a la PEM.  But I have also felt that
some direct trust support is also needed.  It seems that the current
emphasis vis a vis MIME/PEM is to do direct trust in PEM syntactics...
I think that the omission of hierarchical PEM support would be a
mistake especially since we have most of the code (minus CRL support)
already!

My schedule is about starting to clear up...  (thesis done, one release out,
one more to go -- hopefully, 1 month should do it.)

Hopefully, by that time, we'll know better what is going on.  I have become
pretty negative on the concept of just direct trust support in RIPEM...

 -Ray
From strnlght@netcom.com  Sun Jun  5 12:42:17 1994
Received: from netcom.com (netcom3.netcom.com) by scss3.cl.msu.edu (4.1/4.7)  id AA28355; Sun, 5 Jun 94 12:42:17 EDT
Received: by netcom.com (8.6.8.1/SMI-4.1/Netcom)
	id JAA25493; Sun, 5 Jun 1994 09:42:31 -0700
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Message-Id: <199406051642.JAA25493@netcom.com>
Subject: Re: Web of trust and PEM
To: ripem-dev@ripem.msu.edu
Date: Sun, 5 Jun 1994 09:42:31 -0700 (PDT)
In-Reply-To: <9406051551.AA18404@MIT.EDU> from "Raymond Lau" at Jun 5, 94 11:51:51 am
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com
X-Mailer: ELM [version 2.4 PL23]
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Content-Length: 7008      

Ray Lau writes:
> 
> I've personally taken a wait and see attitude on this.  I have always
> felt that the benefit of PEM was in certificates and that RIPEM should
> support certificate chains a la PEM.  But I have also felt that
> some direct trust support is also needed.  It seems that the current
> emphasis vis a vis MIME/PEM is to do direct trust in PEM syntactics...
> I think that the omission of hierarchical PEM support would be a
> mistake especially since we have most of the code (minus CRL support)
> already!

I've made no secret that I think omission of heirarchical PEM support in
Ripem would not just be a mistake, but a major blunder that could well spell
the demise of Ripem as a widely-used tool. I see little reason to use it, in
preference to PGP, without such support, and with such support it would be
strongly preferred by anyone in a certificate heirarchy (which means most
serious professional and corporate types, and all Macintosh types starting
with the new release of System 7.5 this summer, but already including users
who have bought System 7 Pro--and that's most networked Mac sites. i.e.
businesses). Let's remember what the real world is like out there. It's
mostly people in organizations, not cypherpunks sending each other "Captain
Midnight Decoder Ring" messages.

I've heard a lot of talk about moving to the MIME model, and haven't looked
into the details with respect to Ripem. If it's what Ray says--doing direct
trust in PEM syntactics rather than heirarchical PEM support--it will not
answer.

I would hope we don't end up with two Ripems--Ripem MAC which properly
supports heirarchical PEM, and Ripem, which does not. And I speculate,
reading betwen the lines of Ray's comments elsewhere that he's about to add
CRL support to Ripem Mac pretty soon.

Those who don't fully understand the benefits of heirarchical PEM support in
practice should find a Mac somewhere and take a look at the display Ripem
Mac does whenever it comes across a certified message. It's VERY nice and
confidence-inspiring. Look at it with a full certificate chain in a
signature. You get a very nice display of each certificate, the certifier,
the validity dates, etc. None of the monkey business about having to
discover someone's key not on your chain, and then certify him yourself with
-dv. No problem with new keys--you see the certificate and can add the key
all at one go, if you wish.

Recall also that RSADSI runs a "Persona" heirarchy which is free, automatic,
and provides the starting advantage of knowning nobody else can have that
persona certificate on his key. Thus all you have to do is make sure the
person is who he claims. In most cases you don't even need to do that, since
spoofed identites in newsgroup posts would be promptly denounced, and in
private mail if one needs more than an association of a name with a stream
of messages all with the same certified key, one can always do what one HAS
TO do now to get any trust--call 'em up.

Let me say that again, since it is an important point. With even Persona
certificates (and their are higher assurance ones available if one needs
one), one need not even enter the key in one's file. The way the Persona
certification authority works, once they certify a key to a particular
Distinguished Name, they will certify no other keys to that name. This
protection is "wired in". Thus one can be sure of the correspondence between
the key and the "persona"--the purported identity. Often that's all that's
required, but if one wants more, one can, in those few cases, call. With
web-of-trust one has to either take in an uncertified certificate, or
certify it oneself for an assurance that future messages are from the same
"persona". This adds inconvenience and time consuming extra steps to ALL
such cases, while with heirarchical PEM one need only add such extra steps
for critical identities.

I think the reason many people (especially the PGP designers) have missed
this point is because their initial focus was on encryption of e-mail, not
authentication of newsgroup posts. Yet for many net users the latter is far
more common a need than the former. Additionally, by signing one's posts
with a heirarchical certificate, they are somewhat harder to denounce later,
and the writers of such posts are more likely to think about what the're
saying when they put their "certificates" to them. And to pound the final
nail in the coffin, authentication is one area where Ripem has it all over
PGP because of the commodity jurisdiction (good work) gained for Ripem/SIG.
In such cases, with the international Internet community, there aren't going
to be a lot of transatlantic phone calls to certify keys, so the use of
recognized heirarchies becomes even more important, and the exportability of
RIPEM/SIG an even bigger advantage. 

A last comment on this point--people in organizations are going to use
heirarchical certification far more often than web-of-trust for their
business communications. And remember, one can use Ripem for such
communications free, because of the RSAREF license and the public domain
nature of DES, and one cannot use PGP free for business traffic, becaue of
the IDEA license.

Having said the above, I'm not yet clear on how the shift in Ripem to
identifying personas by public key rather than distinguished name plays. I
have a nagging feeling I can't quite put my finger on yet that it may be a
mistake with respect to heirarchial trust models.  Perhaps someone who has
thought longer and more deeply about this than I can comment.

And in conclusion, so I'm not misunderstood, I have no problem with direct
trust IN ADDITION TO, rather than instead of heirarchical,
certificate-chained PEM.

Oh, yes, Jeff Schiller tells me that now that PGP 2.6 is out his next task
is to get the IPRA up and running. This will provide the missing piece in
broadening and internationalizing the heirarchical certification approach--a
missing piece until now. In effect, the RSADSI certification authority has
been the IPRA, but some would prefer a real IPRA and certification
authorities in each country, at banks, etc. One can even imagine a few
notary publics in leading U.S. cities coming into the electronic age by
setting up certification authorities within the IPRA heirarchy, and making
that extra $25 per certificate (for higher assurance heirarchies)
themselves. Unless one wants to keep the public key of every notary, bank,
etc. in one's files this is yet another place where web-of-trust really
breaks down if one doesn't want to go through the time and effort of
certifying every casual correspondent or poster oneself.


> 
> My schedule is about starting to clear up...  (thesis done, one release out,
> one more to go -- hopefully, 1 month should do it.)

Congrats on the thesis being done, Ray.
> 
> Hopefully, by that time, we'll know better what is going on.  I have become
> pretty negative on the concept of just direct trust support in RIPEM...

Tell me about it.  :-)

David

