Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:6874 rec.video:29058 sci.electronics:28030
Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!swrinde!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!dtix!oasys!curt
From: curt@oasys.dt.navy.mil (Curt Welch)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,rec.video,sci.electronics
Subject: Re: VCR+ code question: Was it cracked and legal action taken?
Message-ID: <13665@oasys.dt.navy.mil>
Date: 6 Jan 92 19:41:38 GMT
References: <1992Jan6.160219.3580@msuinfo.cl.msu.edu>
Reply-To: curt@kcwc.uucp (Curt Welch)
Followup-To: sci.crypt
Organization: KCW Consulting
Lines: 55

In sci.crypt, gurney@galaxy.cps.msu.edu (Eddy J. Gurney) writes:
>I just got done reading an article in 'sci.electronics' that said
>three people at Berkeley had cracked the entire VCR+ code scheme.
>When GemStar (the makers of VCR+) found out about this, they took
>some massive legal action, since apparently, the newspapers and
>TV Guides that print the VCR+ codes have to PAY GemStar to print the
>codes!

>So... something must be going on.  Does anyone have more information
>on this?

This rumor mill is getting out of hand.

I am one of the three people, and I'm not "at Berkeley".  Only Ken
is from Berkeley.  I live in VA.

We have not broken the entire code, but we have broken a lot of it.

Gemstar has not yet taken ANY legal action.  There is NO law suit.
There have been no restraining orders.

Gemstar has however contacted us, and asked us not to release our
information.  This is why Ken removed his file from anonymous ftp
access.  Gemstar feels that they have legal rights to the algorithm
and/or the codes, and/or coding scheme.  I have agreed, for now, not to
release our decoding program.  We are currently talking to the people
at Gemstar (and to other people about our legal rights and the possible
liability we would be creating if we released our information).

Either we will reach some type of agreement with Gemstar and not
release our program - in which case you will have to figure out
the codes on your own - or we will decide to release it.

Gemstar has very little legal ground to stand on, but they do have a
lot to loose and are willing to spend money to try and protect their
company.  It is clear that they could take us to court on multiple
issues - and probably would if we release our program without first
giving them a chance to talk with us.  It is very unlikely however that
they could win any court case.

Gemstar is not doing anything underhanded.  They are just doing what I
would expect any company to do.  They are trying to get paid for their
work and they're trying to keep the right to profit from their work.
Being a programmer who has been involved in starting multiple software
companies, I know how hard it is to be successful.  And I think they
have come up with a great idea and a great product - one that they
deserve to profit hansomly from.

They just have to convence me that they have the right to prevent me
from releasing my work - which they are in the process of trying to
do.

Curt Welch
uunet!kcwc!curt (NeXT mail welcome)
or curt@oasys.dt.navy.mil
