Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!qt.cs.utexas.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!dtix!oasys!curt
From: curt@oasys.dt.navy.mil (Curt Welch)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: VCR+ code question: Was it cracked and legal action taken?
Message-ID: <13715@oasys.dt.navy.mil>
Date: 7 Jan 92 18:25:41 GMT
References: <1992Jan7.033234.27832@msuinfo.cl.msu.edu> <1992Jan07.064325.5742rcain@netcom.COM>
Reply-To: curt@kcwc.uucp (Curt Welch)
Organization: KCW Consulting
Lines: 86

In sci.crypt, rcain@netcom.COM (Robert Cain) writes:
>Men and women have been profiting from their secrets for all of known
>history.  Would someone please tell me what is wrong with that and
>what is right about stealing them.  Giving away something stolen is
>just as wrong as selling it.

I completely agree with this thinking.  The issue however is on whether
we stole their secret, and on whether my program is, or should be
considered their secret.  i.e., do they have any property rights to
my program?

If one of Gemstar's employees gave us the algorithm, then it would be clear
that that employee stole the secret.  If I somehow broke into their office
and took the information, that too would be stealing.  But I didn't do
anything like that.

I bought a VCR+ from them, punched in a ton of numbers, and wrote down
the date, and time etc. that the unit displayed to me.

Using this information, I wrote my own program that mimics (to a limited
degree) the behavior of the device.

I have never opened their device and I have never seen any
of their software. (i.e. I didn't even try to read their ROMs).

Is this stealing?

If I was to create a softdrink that tasted like Coke would I be
stealing the Coke formula?

>BTW I somewhat admire the caution expressed by "one of the three" but you
>seem not to respect their privacy at all, just the legality of it all.

Yes, that's any interesting observation about me.

I've never been a big believer in public privacy.  I strongly believe
in the right to privacy, but I don't believe in the right to privacy
in public.  What you do in private is your business.  And everyone has
the right to privacy.  But once you step out in public, then I believe
you loose your rights to privacy.  i.e., anything you do in a public
place should be public knowledge.  If you sell a device like the
VCR+ to the public, then it becomes public knowledge.

You can't have it both ways.  Either it's public or it's private.

But I also believe that people should be able to profit from their work
and their ideas whenever possible.  This is why we have copyright and
patent laws.  If you try to protect your work with a secret, then
you have no protection by the law if you reveal your secret - like I
believe Gemstar did when they sold me a VCR+.

I believe that Gemstar has the right to profit from their "numbering
system".  And I don't think the current laws give them the protection
they deserve.  Software in general is not protected to the degree
it should be by the current laws.

But even if the law gave them clear ownership of the "numbering system",
then I don't believe that they should be able to control my private use
of the system.  If I program my computer to control my VCR, and program
it to use VCR+ numbers, then I should be able to use it without paying
Gemstar a royalty.  Just like you can use your VCR to record a
copyrighted TV show, as long as it is for private use.

Posting my program on USENET is clearly not private use, but posting
my program is also not any type of use of their "numbering system".
By publishing my program, I am not, in my opinion, releasing stolen
property.  The Gemstar "numbering system" is public knowledge and
to some extent is copyrighted by them, but my program is not their
"numbering system".  My program is not a copy of any of their
programs.

It is possible that people could take my program and use it to
publish listings of VCR+ numbers, or build the algorithm into
a VCR.  This is what Gemstar is concerned about.  But this should
be their problem, not mine.  If someone was to do that, then
Gemstar must go after them, not me.

Curt Welch
uunet!kcwc!curt

BTW, Gemstar has copyrights on the VCR+ numbers that have been published
in the various TV listings, and if you copy that information and post
it on USENET, you are probably violating their copyright.  And if you copy
that information into a program, and then publish the program, you
may also be violating the copyright.
 
