Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:6963 sci.electronics:28255
Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!qt.cs.utexas.edu!yale.edu!jvnc.net!darwin.sura.net!haven.umd.edu!mimsy!dtix!oasys!curt
From: curt@oasys.dt.navy.mil (Curt Welch)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,sci.electronics
Subject: Re: VCR+ how to use it (was: why use it at all)
Message-ID: <13847@oasys.dt.navy.mil>
Date: 9 Jan 92 20:06:47 GMT
References: <v2tudn8@sgi.sgi.com> <1992Jan9.144740.2119@pictel.com>
Reply-To: curt@kcwc.uucp (Curt Welch)
Followup-To: sci.crypt
Organization: KCW Consulting
Lines: 157

In sci.electronics, wpns@pictel.com (Willie Smith) writes:
>Does anyone know what it takes to set up the VCR+ in the first place?  _I_`
>don't want one, but if I got one for my parents (who call me on the phone
>when they want to know how to record a show!) would I still have to set it
>up for them and 'maintain' it as the CATV folks shuffled and changed their
>channels?

You first have to tell the VCR+ what type of VCR your have.   You do this
by looking up a 2 digit code in the manual.  Each major company, like
Sony, or GE, etc is given one code.  You flip open the lid on the top
of the VCR+ (to access the buttons used to configure the VCR+), and press
the "VCR" button.  The unit displays something like:

  VCR-22

Which shows the current config.  You then type in the correct 2 digit
code and press ENTER.  The unit then sends out a test signal to
the VCR.  I forget exactlly what it does, but I think it's something
like changes to channel 9 and starts recording (if this is
the case you obviously should have a blank tape in the VCR before
starting.)

The unit has a red LED on the end which flashes to let you know it's
trying to send commands to the VCR.

After the test, the unit asks you to press SAVE or ENTER.  If the test
worked you press SAVE, if it didn't, you press ENTER and it tries the
next type of signal for that same manufacturer.  Different models from
the same manufacturer may require different codes to be sent, but
instead of publishing a list of all the different models, they just
group it under the same 2 digit company code.

You must also set the clock.  This too is simple.  You press the
CLOCK button, it prompts you for the year (and shows you
what it is currently set to).  You enter the 2 digit year and
press ENTER, or if the year is correct you must press ENTER and
it advances to the month.  You continue like this to the end
of the questions, and then, after pressing the last ENTER, it
says SAVE  (to tell you the new time is being saved), and your
are done.  You can press the SAVE button sooner if you don't
want to step through all the questions, and you can press the
CLOCK button to start over at the first question.

If you press some button like the VCR button during the middle
of the CLOCK setting process - that also works.  It aborts the
clock setting process and switchs to the VCR setting process.

If you are in one of the modes, like the VCR setting or CLOCK
setting mode and you don't press anything for something like
60 seconds, the the unit will time out and return to it's default
mode (displaying the current time.)  These are the little things
that makes the unit so easy to use for the non-techno type.  They
don't have to comprehend what mode it's in and remember how
to get out of the different modes.  This is what I hate about
the design of many VCRs.  You get stuck in a menu and it won't
let you out until you find the "magic" button.  I've seen VCRs
that won't respond to the power button when you are in the
middle of the clock setting procedure - but let me get back
to the VCR+.

If you need the VCR+ to control your cable box, then you must
program that also.  You press the CABLE button, and then I
forget what you do, but I think it's like the VCR button, you
enter a 2 digit code for the type of cable box you have and
the VCR+ sends out a test signal.  If it works you press SAVE,
if not your pres ENTER and it trys another signal.

Somewhere, but I don't remember how, I think you also tell
the VCR+ what channel to set the VCR to (i.e. 3 or 4).  The
VCR+ manual is very simple to follow on this.

The only other item to program is the channel mapping table.
This can be confusing for some people.  Whether you need to
use this or not depends on where you get your VCR+ numbers
from.  If the VCR+ numbers are listed in your cable guide,
and are the correct numbers for your cable system, then
you can ignore the channel mapping table.

If you use TV Guide or some other source where the channels
are different from your local cable company, then you have to
program the mapping table.

To do this, you press CH (for channel), and the VCR+ shows
you a disply that looks like this:


SET    GUIDE CH     TV CH
                ___
       ___ ___       ___ ___

You punch in the the channel for say HBO in your guide,
say 45, and then you punch in the channel for you TV (i.e.
your cable channel) say 14.

You do this for every channel you need to have mapped to
another channel and then you press SAVE.

At any time during this process, you can press the REVIEW
button to step through all the channels you have configured.
You can press the CANCEL button to erase any channel pair.

Only the channels that you have entered will show up on the
list (i.e. you don't see a huge list of one-to-one mappings
before you start.)

The channel mapping pairs are sorted by the first number.  No
mater what order you enter them in, then will always display
in the correct order when you REVIEW them.

To change a mapping, you just enter the new values.  You
don't have to do anything complex like searching the list
for the old value and then replace it.  And, after you enter
the guide channel (the first number in the pair), the TV Ch
numbers pop up to show you the current mapping.  You then just
type the new numbers to replace them.  This lets you know
that you are re-programming a mapping.

And when you are reviewing the mappings, if you want to
change the mapping, you just enter the new TV CH.  You
don't have to re-enter the GUIDE CH which is already
being diplayed.

If you cable company keeps changing their channels, then
you will have to keep re-programming the VCR+.  But it's
easy to do.

To program a show, you enter the VCR+ code, and then press
one of three buttons: ONCE, WEEKLY or DAILY (M-F).  You
press ONCE for a one time event, WEEKLY if you want to record
the same show every week at the same time, and DAILY if
you want to record the show at the same time every day
Monday through Friday.

The VCR+ then shows you something like:

DATE  CH  START
2-04  07  3:30pm

If it's correct, then you do nothing more.  If it's wrong
you press CANCEL and do it again.

The VCR+ uses 4 AAA batteries.  But the internal clock and
programming is not lost if you take the batteries out or
if they go dead.  So you don't have to worry about the having
to re-program the unit for your parents when the batteries die.

There's also a TEST button to make sure the unit is working and
is able to control the VCR.  To make sure that the VCR+ is
in a good location for controling the VCR, just press the TEST
button.  It does something like turn to VCR on, change the channel,
and then turn if off again.

The unit has one of the best user interfaces that I've ever seen.
If more VCRs had that simple of an interface, then we wouldn't
need the VCR+ in the first place.

Curt
