Path: msuinfo!caen!uakari.primate.wisc.edu!ames!vsi1!athertn!hemlock!mcgregor
From: mcgregor@hemlock.Atherton.COM (Scott McGregor)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: VCR+ code question: Was it cracked and legal action taken?
Message-ID: <44006@athertn.Atherton.COM>
Date: 13 Jan 92 19:10:20 GMT
References: <13806@oasys.dt.navy.mil> <1992Jan7.221526.26499@athena.mit.edu> <1992Jan8.214949.4367@news.cs.brandeis.edu>
Sender: news@athertn.Atherton.COM
Reply-To: mcgregor@hemlock.Atherton.COM (Scott McGregor)
Organization: Atherton Technology -- Sunnyvale, CA
Lines: 42

In article <13806@oasys.dt.navy.mil>, curt@oasys.dt.navy.mil (Curt
Welch) writes:

>>If I'm not mistaken, you must apply the patent # or Patent Pending
>>message on the product by law.  Is this correct?

>I don't think so.  A patent is valid whether you tell people about it or
>not.  And you don't have to enforce it.  You can let people violate your
>patent for years, and then decide one day to enforce it.

I think Curt is correct on all counts.
According to David Pressman's book, Patent it Yourself, Nolo press:

"What does it mean to say 'patent pending?'  Many people believe that a
person who copies an invention on which a patent is pending is liable
for infringement. This isn't true. You have no monopoly or rights  until
your patent actually issues. In other words, a manufactured article
covered by a pending patent application can be freely copied by anyoone.
 However, even though "patent pending status can't be used to preclude
others from copying the invention, it's not common for them to do so.
This is because if a patent later issues, the infringer takes the chance
that you'll use your patent to enforce your monopoly, i.e., sotpany
further productiona and marketing. In this case the money alread spent
on expensive tooling will have been mostly wasted. (If you're willing to
license the infringer under your patent, the infringer's tooling outlay
will be worthwhile, but few infringers will be willing to take this chance.) 

"Finally, its a criminal offense to use the words "patent applied for"
or "patent pending" in any advertising when there's no active,
applicable patent application on file."

"A section of the patent laws (35 USC 278) states that products
embodying a patented invention may be marked with the legent "Pat." or
"Patent," follwed by the patent number. If you make or sell products
embodying your invention which are properly marked, you can recover
damages from any infringers you sue from the date you began marking. If
you make or sell products but don't mark them "Patented" without the
number, you can recover damages only from the date you notify the
infringer of infringement, or from the date you file suit against the
infringer, whichever is earlier."

Scott McGregor
