Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:7012 alt.security:4752
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security
Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!rpi!news-server.csri.toronto.edu!torsqnt!lethe!compus!cccan!marekp
From: marekp@cccan.uucp (Marek Pawlowski)
Subject: Brute-force cracking
Message-ID: <1992Jan16.011615.24941@cccan.uucp>
Followup-To: marekp@cccan.uucp
Summary: How to make it more efficient
Sender: marekp@cccan.uucp (Marek Pawlowski)
Organization: CCCAN
Date: Thu, 16 Jan 92 01:16:15 GMT

   With brute force password cracking being quickly obsoleted by
shadowed passwords, and faster systems, much use might not come of
this article.  However, for those who have neither of these, I have
come up with some ideas that would reduce the load on testing your
system's user's passwords.

   Attempt to maintain a folder on  recent writing samples of the
user in question.  Chances are that the password will NOT be in
this text, as if you have a dictionary word as a password, and have
SOME conciousness when it comes to password security (a bit of a
contradiction here, no?), you probably have this little paranoid
feeling about posting this word inn public, or even using it.

   I ran some tests.  Passing my samples of text through sort, uniq,
and then wc -w, I came up with 5000 different words on average.

   Our local /usr/dict/words has 234,936 words in it.  This average
sample of 5000 words will only account for about %2.1 of the dictionary.
This might not sound like much, but when processing words through
a 386/20 SCO machine, 5000 guesses eases quite a load off of the
process.

   Secondly, of all guessed passwords, I found that 97.3% [364/374] of them
were nouns.  Thus, the chance of the password not being a verb is
great.  This will SIGNIFICANTLY reduce the amount of guesses that
need to be attempted.  Other words that can be discarded for guessing,
are adjectives and prepositions.

   I'm not sure if there are noun/verb-only electronic dictionaries
out there.  I sure don't plan on making my own, however I would appreciate
hearing of such discoveries.

   I hope this helps out those system administrators who find their machines
running for days trying to test the security of their system.

   Feedback appreciated.

   (On another note, has anyone ever conducted research on recognizing
an individual by comparing word-frequencies of written material?  I would
be interested in hearing about this as well)

   (A more official and proper version of this article, in "essay" form,
is availiable on request.  I couldn't wait to get what little research
I had conducted on to the net! :)


t 

-- 
Marek Pawlowski - marekp@cerf.net, marekp@cccan.uucp, marekp@pnet91.cts.com
Smoke a friend today!
