Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!swrinde!gatech!purdue!haven.umd.edu!decuac!hussar.dco.dec.com!mjr
From: mjr@hussar.dco.dec.com (Marcus J. Ranum)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Pretty Good (tm) Privacy
Message-ID: <1992Jan19.180615.18929@decuac.dec.com>
Date: 19 Jan 92 18:06:15 GMT
References: <1992Jan17.152633.39874@camb.com> <1992Jan18.014412.8142@decuac.dec.com> <22554.Jan1820.14.0392@virtualnews.nyu.edu>
Sender: news@decuac.dec.com (USENET News System)
Organization: Digital Equipment Corporation, Washington ULTRIX Resource Center
Lines: 33

brnstnd@nyu.edu (Dan Bernstein) writes:

>But statistically, when you say ``user on the Internet,'' you're most
>likely talking about someone using a BSD-derived machine---and such
>users are most able to put encryption technology to immediate use.

	I agree violently, but my point was that if you're trying to
help the greatest number of users with the minimum of personal risk
to yourself, targetting DOS is the way to go. I'm sure that PGP is
now in the catalogs of zillions and zillions of BBS' and user groups,
all gleefully selling floopies at every computer show all over the
country. It's also nice because the distribution channel is now so
totally gnarled as to be untraceable. It's feasible to track the
sites on the internet that have something up for FTP (archie is an
example of the degree to which this can be done) and most internet
machines are edu or corporate-owned and are more susceptible to
legal leverage being applied against them than JoeBob's Gnarly BBS.

	I state for the record, for example, that I did not, and
will not port PGP to UNIX - I can't afford to risk getting Digital
in trouble legally (following the "trickle-down" trouble theory,
that trouble flows downhill). I suspect a portable version is
inevitable - it'll be interesting to see what happens then.

	Is there any way that someone could prove in court that a
chunk of random data I send to a friend is encrypted using a given
technology? Would forcing me to decode it to prove that it was
encoded with (say) DES be forcing me to testify against myself?
What if I encode something with (for example) RSA and then Xor
a bogus message with it, and then claim in court that what I had
actually transmitted was the bogus message via a one-time pad?

mjr.
