Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!usc!apple!netcomsv!rcain
From: rcain@netcom.COM (Robert Cain)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Possible Insecurity of DES-Encrypted Text
Message-ID: <1992Jan20.002046.21583rcain@netcom.COM>
Date: 20 Jan 92 00:20:46 GMT
References: <1992Jan19.070914.14577@qualcomm.com>
Distribution: usa
Organization: Netcom - Online Communication Services  (408 241-9760 guest)
Lines: 38

karn@chicago.qualcomm.com (Phil Karn) writes:
: 
: Maybe this guy would be happier if he replaced DES with an encryption
: program that XORed his data with a hardware random number generator.
: He could then boast that his revolutionary new encryption scheme not
: only has ideal ciphertext statistics, but it is also completely
: unbreakable by anyone (including the intended recipient...)
: 

Not necessisarily. Obviously not if the recipient could generate the same
"random" sequence.  This brings to mind recent articles on a new class
of random number generators with *HUGE* periods, wonderful randomness
properties and remarkably simple generators.  I think their state
variable (read "key") is also very big.  Sounds perfect for the
traditional (non-public key) methods.  Any comments?

If anybody has pseudo-code or C source for this class of algorithms
please post it if short and mail it to me if long.  I'm on my way now to see
if there is a comp.*.random.* group with this in it. BTW if it is patented
never mind.

Damn, I may just have disclosed something I could have patented! :-)
I can't figure my attitude on this. I am usually a strong advocate for
the patent system (and strongly opposed to Stallman and his FSF anarchy.)
I just wish we could come up with some consistent, sensible *LAWS*
to distinguish algorithmic software from mathematics.  This of course may
not be possible even though *I* can tell the difference. :-)  Yet emotionally
I respond very negatively to patenting mathematics that keep secrets secret.
This is not even opinion.  I can't justify it.  It's just my "gut feel".
I hope guts are ok on the network.  I know there are those of you that
don't feel this is the place to discuss patents but BACK OFF! I do as they
relate to cryptography.  Cryptography and patents are now intertwined. (Or
enfolded if you are a Bohm fan.)
-- 
Bob Cain    rcain@netcom.com   408-358-2007

"Systems should be described as simply as possible, but no simpler."
                                                    A. Einstein
