Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!linac!att!att!dptg!ulysses!ucbvax!virtualnews.nyu.edu!brnstnd
From: brnstnd@nyu.edu (Dan Bernstein)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Pretty Good (tm) Privacy
Message-ID: <18624.Jan2701.58.1592@virtualnews.nyu.edu>
Date: 27 Jan 92 01:58:15 GMT
References: <1992Jan22.215401.214962@cs.cmu.edu> <16143@ulysses.att.com>
Organization: IR
Lines: 41

In article <16143@ulysses.att.com> smb@ulysses.att.com (Steven Bellovin) writes:
> It's worth noting, btw, that RSADSI says that much of the cost is for
> the certification, not a patent royalty.  No matter who ran the
> certificate signing cetner, there would still be some cost to recoup.

No.

In the real world, the vast bulk of communication happens by rendezvous.
How often do you talk to someone who you didn't either meet directly or
hear about from someone else? Think about it. Names and addresses for
communication are themselves communicated over the same set of media.

There's no reason that each person can't generate his own public key.
When you meet someone in person, he can give you his business card with
his NIST DSA number. And if you hear about a name from someone else,
then there's no security problem with getting the NIST DSA number from
the same source.

Example: Some loudmouth in alt.security has been complaining about open
terminal servers. He happens to have acquired the name of a terminal
server administrator to whom you can complain. If he also tells you that
administrator's public key, what's the problem? The only advantage of a
secure central registry is that you can be sure that the name and key go
together. But if that loudmouth wanted you to pester some poor victim
who isn't actually the administrator, he could just as easily have given
you the victim's name (and key). Again, if you get a name from someone
else, then you may as well get the key from the same place.

Now if the real administrator posts to alt.security, then he can include
his key, and you can check that the (name,key) pair matches the
(name,key) pair you saw before. If you find that there are two (John
Smith,key) pairs with different keys, then obviously those two are
different people, and they can't sign each other's messages.

In other words, your key is part of your name on the network. There's no
need for a central registry of keys any more than there's a need for a
central registry of names. In practice, the organizations which already
keep track of names---e.g., the IRS---will also keep track of keys. But
there's no need for people to acquire keys from a central directory.

---Dan
