Path: msuinfo!caen!uakari.primate.wisc.edu!samsung!uunet!shearson.com!newshost!pmetzger
From: pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (Perry E. Metzger)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Why public domain encryption software may not be good enough.
Message-ID: <PMETZGER.92Jan29095856@snark.shearson.com>
Date: 29 Jan 92 14:58:56 GMT
References: <3269@wet.UUCP>
Sender: news@shearson.com (News)
Reply-To: pmetzger@shearson.com
Followup-To: sci.crypt
Distribution: na
Organization: Lehman Brothers
Lines: 90
In-Reply-To: naga@wet.UUCP's message of 29 Jan 92 02:42:22 GMT

To sum up in advance before going over this guy's post point by point:
Everything his software offers can be accomplished in fifteen minutes
of shell programming on top of Phil Karn's "DES" program, and it will
be more secure, too, because the underlying encryption system is
strong, not weak.

In article <3269@wet.UUCP> naga@wet.UUCP (Peter Davidson) writes:

   Certainly one should not pay good money for insecure commercial encryption
   software.  But *secure* - and well-designed - commercial encryption
   software is another matter.  And there is a lot more to good, usable
   encryption software than a secure encryption method.  I'm prepared to
   believe that your code is a competent (possibly even brilliant)
   implementation of DES in its various modes, and for some that may be all
   that is needed.  But if one has some heavy-duty encryption needs then a
   free but no-frills encryption package may not suffice.

Obviously written by someone who hasn't even bothered to examine the question.

   Some questions to
   be considered when evaluating encryption software are the following, which
   are an answer to the question in your posting:

   1.  Does the allow long encryption keys (the better to remember) and any
   typeable and displayable character in keys (so they can be in English,
   rather than in hex)?

As you have no familiarity with the software in question, let me
inform you that both the sun DES command and Phil's compatible command
allow the use of text keys which are converted into 56 bit DES keys.

   2.  Does it allow encryption of multiple files with a single command?
   Multiple files in multiple subdirectories?  Can complex operations be
   automated?

Obviously you are not familiar with unix, either. You can write five
line shell scripts to do all of the above.

   3.  Is there an option for encryption or decryption without destroying the
   original data?

It ONLY encrypts without destroying the original data; it is up to you
to remove the original file (or use a script that will do it.)

   4.  Does the software compress the data as well as encrypt it?

This is unix. Compress(1) does an excellent job. If you are unwilling
to run two commands, a one line shell script will do the trick for
you. You have heard of pipes, right? This isn't VMS, its unix.

   5.  Does the software provide encrypted output as text as well as binary?

This is unix. If you need to turn the encrypted output into text, use
UUENCODE(1). If you are unwilling to run two commands, write the one
line shell script to do the job. You DO know what a pipe is, don't you?

   6.  Can floppy disks - as well as files - be encrypted?

How do I encrypt coated mylar? If I am trying to encrypt the DATA on a
floppy, however, well, why shouldn't I be able to? Its just more files
in Unix.

   7.  Is there provision for purging sensitive data which has been encrypted
   but which may still exist on disk in plaintext form but yet not visible?

This is a seperate issue, and one that could be handled with a seven
line perl script if someone was concerned enough. All you need to do
is zero out the data in the file before unlinking it.

   8.  Does the software provide means for producing a permanent record of its
   operations, providing information about the files being encrypted or
   decrypted?

If you want one, you can write a three line shell script to do this
for you.

   9.  Is there provision for recovery of the plaintext if an encryption key
   is lost?

This is not a feature; it is a bug. Encryption that has a trapdoor is
not encryption.

Perry Metzger
--
--
Perry Metzger		pmetzger@shearson.com
--
HELLO, I'm a more persuasive signature virus!  Join in the fun and copy me 
into yours!  C'mon, it's really fun!  And such a cool concept, too!  That's
it, just snip me out of this letter and append me to your .sig...PLEEEEZE??
