In addition to the usual bug fixes, there are several major changes in this
release. In general, these changes were intended to increase the number
of programs that are compatable with WPGP and to reduce the amount of
screen real estate used by the menu bar. To date, all tested 16 bit
applications can be made to work almost seamlessly. Most 32 bit
applications worked well, but with some limitations. This will be
addressed in future releases.

The complete list of changes is in the README file (available under
Help/Readme), but here are the high points.

The Capture menu has been eliminated. Undert Options/Select Keystrokes
you can set up default definitions for how to get text from a window.
Most applications will work with ctrl-c/ctrl-x/ctrl-v for copy, cut and
paste, but if they don't, you can program custom keystrokes for those
cases. If you check "Select All", program the keystrokes for your
application's select all command. It's usually Alt-E s (%es) or Alt-E a
(%ea). In some cases, it can be quite complicated. For example,
Borland's IDE editor requires ctrl-Home, ctrl-shift-pagedown. This is
programmed as ^{HOME}^+{PGDN}. If you have cheked select all,
WPGP will do the select using these keystrokes and and then perform the
function.

Some people are using different apps with different interfaces. If you
check "memorize" keystrokes, WPGP will check the window and try to
"recognize" it, and use the keystrokes defined for the window. A number
of common definitions are supplied with the install, but if you need a
new one, look at Options/Memorize, you will see the dialog that lets you
add new windows and keystrokes to the "memorized" list.

Under Options/Select, there is a new flag, Dewrap. This is for
plaintext signatures in offline readers, like Agent, which undo the
wordwrap before sending, thereby garbling the signature. If you select
Dewrap, and set the number of columns properly, WPGP will "unwordwrap"
the message before the mailer/newsreader gets to it. I recommend
setting the number of columns to one less than your reader is set for.
Avoid using tabs, at least for now. They will screw up the signature.

A tool bar as well as a menu is now availabe. If you look at the sytem
menu, you will see how to turn off the menus, tool bar or even the
window caption. You can rearrange the buttons as needed by clicking on
the button and dragging it to where you want it.

The new programs menu now lets you drag programs from the file manager.

The passphrase screen now has a cancel button.

The file wipe routine is now much more rigorous.



