Path: msuinfo!agate!news.Brown.EDU!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!uunet!nwnexus!chinook!ken
From: ken@chinook.halcyon.com (Ken Pizzini)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: PGP
Date: 31 Mar 1994 21:32:57 GMT
Organization: A World of Information at Your Fingertips
Lines: 74
Message-ID: <2nffi9$q9k@nwfocus.wa.com>
References: <765087612.AA00334@spectrum.proxima.alt.za>
NNTP-Posting-Host: chinook.halcyon.com

In article <765087612.AA00334@spectrum.proxima.alt.za>,
Graham Richter <Graham.Richter@f74.n7106.z5.spectrum.proxima.alt.za> wrote:
>                                              Would somebody that is
>knowledgeable about this topic please, in a few words, summarize what
>the consensus opinion on the security of PGP is?

I'll take a stab at this...

Pretty good.

Oops, sorry; couldn't resist.

The major aspects of PGP from a cryptanalytic point of view are:
	Generation of the session key
	Encryption of the session key with RSA
	Encryption of the message with IDEA (using the session key)
	Generation of the message digest with MD5
	Signing of the message digest with RSA
	Authentication of the RSA public keys

I have not seen much discussion about how strong the session-key
generator is.  I presume this means that there are no glaring
weaknesses, but I really don't know how good it is.

RSA has been around for about 15 years, studied extensively,
and the best know attack on it involves the ablilty to
factor large numbers.  If you choose a small modulus
it is feasible to derive the private key (and thus have acess
to all communications in that key) with an expenditure of less
than 0.1 MIPS-years (that is, a 1 MIPS machine would take
1/10 year, or a 10 MIPS machine would take 1/100 year, or 10
100 MIPS machines would take 1/1000 year, etc).  With a 1280
bit RSA key, barring a breakthrough in factoring (or discovery
of another weakness in RSA), it would take more compute power
than is projected to exist in the next 30 years (combined)
to crack the key.

The trade off is that longer keys also take longer to use,
but as one seldom uses the RSA key more than twice per message
(once for the session key, once for the signature) this ususally
isn't a big deal.

One other aspect of RSA to be considered is the size of the public
exponent.  I don't recall what PGP's approach to this is, someone
else will have to comment.


IDEA has not been around very long, and has not had the extensive
scrutiny that some other venerated algorithms (such as the
aging/aged DES) have had.  So far it looks good, although it does
have an excessive number of "weak keys" (which still isn't likely
to be a problem in practice).

The message digest is only important for validating signatures
on a message; that is, it is not important to securing a communication
link per se.  I have heard rumors of some minor weaknesses in MD5,
but none that would apply in the context of PGP.  MD5 is still
considered to be one of the better cryptographic hashes publicly
avalable.

Signing the message digest with RSA brings nothing cryptographically
new to the mix.

Authentication of the RSA public keys is perhaps one of the
most contriversial links.  Properly used according to directions,
PGP provides a novel, strong, and distributed method of key
authentication.  Improperly used and spoofing becomes a problem.
The "problem" with PGP verses a more traditional hierarchical
system is that since there is no "root of the authentication tree"
that can be built into the code, there is no means for PGP to
force you to do your authentications right.  The advantage is
that you can choose who you trust to authenticate user/key pairs.

		--Ken Pizzini
