Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!news.amherst.edu!news.mtholyoke.edu!news.byu.edu!news.kei.com!MathWorks.Com!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!darwin.sura.net!gwu.edu!hoffman
From: hoffman@seas.gwu.edu (Lance J. Hoffman)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: insert to Software Publishers Association News, focus on crypto
Date: 31 Mar 1994 20:37:38 GMT
Organization: George Washington University
Lines: 395
Message-ID: <2nfcai$gn3@cronkite.seas.gwu.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: 128.164.2.1


The following articles appeared in a special government affairs section
on cryptography in the April 1994 issue of the Software Publishers Association
(SPA) news.

Note that their counts are low.  Latest figures have 340 foreign hardware,
software, and combination products for text, file, data, voice, and fax 
encryption from 22 countries other than the USA.  Of these 340, 155 employ DES
  Latest
US figures show 423, of which 245 employ DES.. 
==============================================================================

                 SPA NEWS (March 1994, Vol. 11, No. 3)

                      GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS UPDATE

                            In This Issue: 
			     CRYPTOGRAPHY

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Software Publishers Association (SPA) is the principal trade
association of the personal computer software industry.  Since 1984, it
has grown to over 1,000 members, representing the leading publishers in
the business, consumer, and education software markets.

SPA News is a monthly publication of the Software Publishers Association
produced entirely in-house.  Readers are invited to submit questions and
comments to Douglas Miller
at the SPA, 1730 M Street, NW, Suite 700,
Washington, DC 20036-4510, 202 452-1600 ext. 342, fax 202 223-8756. 
Articles from this supplement to SPA News may be
reproduced 
if SPA News is credited.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

SPA Study of Foreign Availability of Cryptography
Legislative Outlook for Cryptography
SPA Spearheads Efforts to Soften Controls on Encryption Software
NIST Report Overview: Trends in technology and policy

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SPA STUDY OF FOREIGN AVAILABILITY OF CRYPTOGRAPHY

by Lance Hoffman, George Washington University

     The Bush and Clinton Administrations have asserted that export
controls are not harming US firms by causing them to lose market shares
because there are, effectively, no foreign products and programs
available.

     SPA has countered this canard by developing a definitive
assessment of just how widespread cryptography is in the world.

     Our research team focused exclusively on products providing text,
file, and data communications encryption capabilities and on programs
and products using DES or its equivalent, i.e., the precise products
subject to export restrictions.

New Product Information

     Information on new products continues to flow in daily:

* Information gathered to date indicates that 210 foreign hardware,
software, and combination products are available for text, file, and
data encryption from 21 foreign countries: Argentina, Australia,
Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India,
Ireland, Israel,  Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Russia,
South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.

* Of these 210 products, 129 employ DES.

* We have confirmed the availability of 61 foreign encryption software
programs and kits that employ the DES algorithm.  These are published
by companies in Australia, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany,
Israel, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Russia, Sweden, and the United
Kingdom.

     Some have distributors in other foreign countries and in the
United States; one, a UK company, has distributors in 13 countries
(Bahrain, Denmark, France, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Malta, the
Netherlands, Norway, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, and Yugoslavia).  One in
Germany has distributors in 14 countries (Australia, Austria, Belgium,
Canada, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US).  The programs are installed by the user
inserting a floppy diskette; the kits enable encryption capabilities to
be easily programmed into a variety of applications.

* Foreign customers increasingly recognize and are responding to the
need to provide software-only encryption solutions. Although the foreign
encryption market is still heavily weighted towards encryption hardware
and hardware/software combinations, the market trend is towards
software for reasons of cost, convenience, and space.

* On the domestic front, we have identified 288 products, of which 142
employ DES.  Thus, 142 products are unable to be exported, except in
very limited circumstances, to compete with the many available foreign
products.

* In total, 498 cryptographic products have been identified to date
that are, developed or distributed by a total of 366 companies (211
foreign, 155 domestic) in at least 33 countries.

* Implementations of DES, RSA, and newer algorithms such as the
International Data Encryption Algorithm (IDEA, an algorithm that has a
key length more than twice that of DES) that is incorporated into the
recently popularized Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) encryption software
program, are available routinely on the Internet from sites all over
the world.

     The ineffectiveness of export controls is also evident in their
inability to stop the spread of technology through piracy.  The
software industry has a multi-billion dollar worldwide problem with
software piracy.  Mass market software is easy to duplicate and easy to
ship via modem, suitcase, laptop, etc.  Accordingly, domestic software
products with encryption are easily available for export -- through
illegal but pervasive software piracy -- to anyone who desires them.

    It cannot be any clearer:  the existence of widespread and
affordable cryptographic products overseas is an indisputable fact.
Based on that fact, unilateral US export controls keep US firms from
competing in the global marketplace.

     Foreign customers who need data security are forced to turn to
foreign rather than US sources to secure that need.  As a result, the
US Government is succeeding only in crippling a vital American
industry's exporting ability.

     Following the first publication of our cryptographic database at
the Computer System Security and Privacy Advisory Board meeting on June
2, 1993, the Administration requested a meeting with the SPA research
team to review their approach and findings.  This meeting was held on
July 1, 1993, at the Department of Commerce and involved Government
representatives from the Department of Commerce and NSA.  We described
both our technique for gathering and cataloging the information and the
latest results as of that date.  At the conclusion of the meeting, it
appeared that the Administration representatives were satisfied that a
valid survey process was being carried out.   Later, informal
conversation with someone who should know at NSA reinforced SPA's
impression that there was little difference in the numbers of foreign
cryptographic products known to NSA and to SPA.

     SPA is continuing to collect additional information on
cryptographic product availability and to periodically publish its
results in this newsletter to help focus attention on this important
and often ignored situation. We welcome any information you may have
that might be of some help.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LEGISLATIVE OUTLOOK FOR CRYPTOGRAPHY A VIEW FROM THE HILL

by Douglas Miller, SPA Government Affairs Representative

     The effort to liberalize export controls on mass market software
with encryption capabilities is picking up steam on Capitol Hill.
In the wake of the Clinton Administration's announcement on February 4
that they will be proceeding with the Key Escrow System and will not be
liberalizing the export controls on software with encryption has given
renewed ardor to industry efforts.

     Ultimately, the activity will center on broad legislation to
rewrite the Export Administration Act, which is due for reauthorization
in June.  A measure has been introduced by Reps. Roth (R-WI) and and
Oberstar (D-MN), and an overdue administration bill is expected soon.

The Introduction of a New Bill

     A new bill introduced by Maria Cantwell (D-WA), H.R. 3627, would
amend the Export Administration Act to essentially fulfill our
wish list for exporting software with encryption.  This legislation
will likely be attached to a broader bill.  Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA)
will be introducing companion legislation in the Senate.

     Fundamentally, the new Cantwell bill does three things:

First: Authority

     The bill gives the Commerce Department authority over the export
of mass market software with encryption, with the exception of products
expressly designed for military use or for cracking codes.

Second: License Restrictions

     No validated license may be required for the export of mass market
or public domain software, or the hardware that may incorporate such
software.  Naturally, controls will continue for terrorist countries or
embargoed countries like North Korea and Cuba, for which export is
proscribed by the Trading with the Enemy Act.

Third: Software Exportation

     The Commerce Department will have to grant validated licenses for
the export of software to commercial users in countries to which the
export of such software is already approved for use by foreign
financial institutions.  Again, exports with either the military or
terrorists as likely end-users are expressly prohibited.

     Put simply, the bill allows exports of software with encryption to
a degree that reflects a reality clarified by the SPA foreign
availability study, but also seeks to keep software out of the hands of
international bad guys.

Export Control Hearings

     Rep. Sam Gejdenson, who chairs the House Economic Policy, Trade,
and Environment Subcommittee, has held a series of hearings on
export control issues with a view toward crafting legislation to
rewrite  the EAA.  He was enthusiastic about the presentation made by
SPA member Steve Walker of Trusted Information Systems at the hearing
on October 12 (call or write the SPA to obtain a copy).  Walker
presented the results of the SPA study, and demonstrated how easy it is
to use the widely available foreign cryptographic products.

     Congress needs to know how important this legislation is to you.
Please contact your member of Congress as soon as possible and urge him
or her to support H.R. 3627.  Call Doug Miller at (202) 452-1600 ext.
342 if you have any questions or concerns.

Other Legislation

     The Clinton Administration maintains that no legislation will be
necessary to implement its key escrow scheme.  At present, there is no
legislation to oppose it, either.  However, a few small legislative
initiatives may impact on the cryptography debate.

     The Administration has developed an alternative to Title VI of
S.4, the competitiveness legislation.  Title VI contains the companion
legislation to H.R. 1757, the information infrastructure legislation.
It contains one alarming provision that would have support and research
and development of advanced security technology conducted through the
National Security Agency.  Such language contravenes the Computer
Security Act of 1987, which places NIST in charge of R&D for
unclassified communications.  SPA is  now active at working to counter
this effort to put the fox in charge of the henhouse.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SPA SPEARHEADS EFFORTS TO SOFTEN CONTROLS ON ENCRYPTION SOFTWARE

by Ken Wasch, SPA Executive Director

     For nearly three years, the Software Publishers Association has
spearheaded the effort to liberalize the export controls on mass market
software with encryption.  Our membership of over 1000 of the leading
software publishers in the business, consumer, and education markets
includes many companies who publish software with encryption that would
be competitive with any similar product in the world -- except that the
US government will not permit the export of such products.

     There are growing markets for encryption, because companies want
to be able to protect corporate communications and data against
unauthorized access.  Access to such markets is important to the
software industry, which makes over 40% of its revenues from  exports.

     Exports of mass market programs with encryption capabilities are
not treated as a commercial matter within the Department of Commerce.
Rather, they must be cleared with the State Department's Office of
Defense Trade controls, which despite presidential directives to the
contrary continues to review the encryption software as a "munitions"
item, like a bomb or bullet.  Because most industrialized countries
follow COCOM guidelines and treat software with encryption as a
dual-use item with both military and commercial applications, companies
from these countries are winning market share of a growing industry
from which US firms are excluded.

The SPA Agreement

     In July, 1992, SPA reached an agreement with the Bush
administration to allow for the expedited review of software using
one of two algorithms developed by RSA Data Security, Inc. (RSA).  The
algorithms, RC2 and RC4, are significantly stronger than those
previously allowed for export, but are limited to a 40-bit key length.
They are weaker than the DES-strength programs that can be marketed in
the US and that are available overseas from foreign competitors.

The SPA Study

     The SPA agreement was an important first step, but it is still the
case that foreign competitors are able to export stronger
encryption, which makes products with a 40-bit key simply
non-competitive.  But the administration was not receptive to our
contention that there is widespread availability in foreign markets of
strong encryption.

     During the summer of 1993, SPA set out to demonstrate
incontrovertibly that there are many easily available products in
foreign markets that are stronger than what US firms are able to
export.

The Clipper Chip

     As America moves toward the development of an "electronic
information superhighway," our increased reliance on electronic
information generates a need for data security and privacy.  But the
right of individuals and corporations to privacy conflicts with the
need for law enforcement to intercept the communications of criminals.

     On April 16, 1993, the Clinton Administration made the surprise
announcement that it was making a hardware product called the Clipper
chip, or key escrow device, a government standard for encryption.  The
key escrow device is designed primarily to encrypt nonclassified voice
communications, but the technology can be applied to data transmissions
as well.  The underlying algorithm for the device has been dubbed
"Skipjack" by the National Security Agency, which developed the device
in secret.

     The key escrow system is a paradigm shift in cryptography,
employing a split key for decrypting messages held in escrow by
two government agencies, NIST and a yet-to-be determined arm of the
Treasury Department.  Law enforcement would thus have the technical
means to execute wiretaps, but only after they have obtained the legal
means with a court order.

     SPA honors the need for law enforcement to be able to execute
authorized wiretaps. But there are serious problems with the key escrow
proposal that SPA is addressing along with a broad coalition of high
tech companies and associations, the Digital Privacy and Security
Working Group.  First, the system must be voluntary, but it is hard to
imagine that criminals or terrorists would use encryption to which the
US Government holds the keys.  Second, the system will not be
marketable overseas because no foreign entity will use a product to
which the US government holds the keys.  Third, it is a hardware
solution, and less likely to encounter wide use at a time when people
are turning to encryption with software because it is cheaper and
easier to use.

     Finally, the device was the product of a secret process, and the
national cryptography policy review that was announced with the system
is in fact an interagency review. The technology has progressed beyond
the purview of government, and the full range of companies, public
interest groups, and other users must have input to a cryptography
policy process that must strike a complex balance of conflicting societal
values.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NIST REPORT OVERVIEW: TRENDS IN TECHNOLOGY AND POLICY

     During the past five years, encryption technology has become
easily available to individuals and businesses, affording a level of
security formerly available to only military, national security, and
law enforcement agencies.  As a result, a debate within the US about the
proper balance between national security and personal freedom has
begun.  Law enforcement and national security agencies would like to
maintain tight control over civilian encryption technologies, while
industry and individual and privacy rights advocates fight to expand
their ability to distribute and use cryptographic products as they
please.

     A report completed by Lance Hoffman of George Washington
University for the National Institute of Standards and Technologies
analyzes trends in encryption technologies, markets export controls,
and legislation, and identified five trends which will have a strong
influence on cryptographic policy in the US.

     1. The continued expansion of the Internet and the progressive
miniaturization of cryptographic hardware combined with the increasing
availability and use of strong cryptographic software means that the
strongest encryption technologies will continue to become more easily
obtainable.

     2. Additional growth in networked and wireless communication will
fuel a strong demand for encryption hardware and software both
domestically and abroad, causing the US high-tech industry to be
increasingly interested in selling encryption products overseas and in
modifying current export restrictions.

     3. Products using strong encryption algorithms, such as DES will
continue to face at least some export restrictions, despite the
widespread availability of strong encryption products overseas.

     4. The American public will become more concerned about its
privacy and cryptographic policy as a result of increased online
personal information, and wireless and networked communications. The
development and increasing widespread use of the National Information
Infrastructure will heighten these concerns.

     5. Encryption policy is becoming an important public policy issue
that will engage the attention of all branches of government.  Congress
will become more visible due to its power of agency oversight and its
role in passing laws in accommodating the US rapid rate of
technological change.  Agencies will remain important because of their
implementing and planning responsibilities.

==============================================================================


-- 
Professor Lance J. Hoffman
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
The George Washington University    (202) 994-4955    Fax: (202) 994-0227
Washington, D. C. 20052             hoffman@seas.gwu.edu
