Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!cs.uiuc.edu!kadie
From: kadie@hal.cs.uiuc.edu (Fwd:)
Subject: [comp.dcom.telecom]  Re: AT&T Cellular Privacy System
Message-ID: <CnK875.J9n@cs.uiuc.edu>
Followup-To: sci.crypt,comp.dcom.telecom
Sender: kadie@cs.uiuc.edu (Carl M Kadie)
Organization: University of Illinois, Dept. of Comp. Sci., Urbana, IL
Date: Fri, 1 Apr 1994 02:57:04 GMT
Lines: 114

[A repost - Carl]

Date: 30 Mar 1994 16:49:16 GMT
From: king@wildebeest.cig.mot.com (Steven King, Software Archaeologist)
Newsgroups: comp.dcom.telecom
Subject:  Re: AT&T Cellular Privacy System
Message-ID: <telecom14.155.9@eecs.nwu.edu>

I asked some questions regarding the AT&T Cellular Privacy System.  Mr.
Arneke kindly responded and indicated that I could post his response to
the Digest.  Thanks for the info, guys!


  From: darneke@attmail.com (David R Arneke)
  Date: 28 Mar 94 09:45:44 GMT
  Subject: Re: AT&T Cellular Privacy System

Here is a more complete answer to your message of last week regarding
the AT&T Cellular Privacy System. This comes from our cellular privacy
product manager, Ben Bratcher (214 280-9410).

1.  Is the scrambling technology simple inversion?

No.  The scrambling algorithm uses split-band frequency inversion,
translation of the upper band's frequencies, frequency dispersion of
both bands, time compression of both bands and independent time
displacement of the individual bands.

The combinations are determined by a key generator driven by a common
key that is negotiated for each privacy activation by using a public
key technique.  This is the strongest scrambling algorithm available
for handheld, transportable and mobile cellular subscriber equipment.

2. Is the signaling channel scrambled?  How about the blank-and-burst
signal sent on the voice channel to change power level or to do a
handoff?

Neither the signalling channel nor the inband signalling are
scrambled.  The Advanced Cellular Privacy System scrambles only the
user's audio.  However, the system is designed to maintain all
functions of the cellular telephone system without degradation.

3.  Is the SAT tone affected?

No.  The common channel interface of the cellular network is not
affected by the cellular privacy system.

4.  How does the mobile recognize that it's in a scrambler-capable
system?  How does the base site recognize that a mobile has a
scrambler attached?  Does the mobile scrambling unit recognize when
the mobile is roaming into an incompatible system and turn itself off?

The mobile system when activated sends a signal to the switch that
includes its part of the public key.  If the switch is scrambler-
capable and the user's electronic serial number (ESN) relates to a
privacy class of service mark, the switch will respond with its part
of the public key and privacy is established.  If there is no response
from the switch, the mobile system will return a fast busy, alerting
the user that privacy is not available and preventing communication
until the user releases the privacy request, indicating that
clear-only operation is acceptable.

The Mobile Switching Equipment (MSE) will first recognize that a user
has a privacy class of service from the relation of the ESN and the
home or visitor location register.  This causes the MSE to route the
call to the MSE-based scrambler equipment.  The MTSO Privacy Unit
(MSE-based scrambler equipment) then recognizes the initial signal
from the mobile subscriber and returns the confirmation.

If a user is roaming in a non-privacy capable system and tried to
initiate privacy, the mobile unit will not enter the privacy mode and
will alert the user.  If the mobile unit is operating in the privacy
mode and enters a non-privacy capable sysyem, the mobile unit also
will alert the user.  Every three seconds the mobile scrambler and the
switch scrambler exchange information.  After five failures (allowing
time for tunnels and fades), the mobile scrambler will return a fast
busy call and block communication.  The user can then choose to return
to clear mode.

5. Is the MTSO scrambler unit part of the base site or the switch?  If
it's part of the base site, can a scrambled call be handed off into a
cell with no scrambler unit attached?

The MTSO scrambler unit is attached to the MSE and therefore is always
available to cell sites associated with the MSE.  Through networking,
a MSE unit can continue privacy service as the mobile transits between
MTSOs.

6.  If there are no MTSO scrambler units available, does the
subscriber get any indication that the call is being sent in teh clear
rather than scrambled?

Yes, as described above.

7.  What is Ameritech charging for the service?

Confirm this number with Ameritech, but I believe it's $14 per month.

Thanks again for writing.  Feel free to pass this on to Telecom Digest
or anyone else who might be interested.


David Arneke
Media Relations Manager
AT&T Secure Communications Systems
david.arneke@att.com (!darneke on AT&T Mail)

                       ===================

Steven King <king@cig.mot.com> -- Motorola Cellular Infrastructure Group

-- 
Carl Kadie -- I do not represent any organization; this is just me.
 = kadie@cs.uiuc.edu =
