Newsgroups: sci.crypt,sci.math
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: RSA Broken by the Russians?
Message-ID: <strnlghtCnLsts.L58@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <tcmayCnKqsq.6M7@netcom.com> <CnL7pC.74w@cse.psu.edu>
Date: Fri, 1 Apr 1994 23:20:10 GMT
Lines: 54
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:25371 sci.math:68565

In article <CnL7pC.74w@cse.psu.edu>, Nicol C So <so@eiffel.cse.psu.edu> wrote:
>
>This is obvious a joke.
>

How dare you suggest the distinguished cryptographer, bon vivant, and judge
of fine wines Timothy C. May would post a joke. Would you have preferred
that he wait until April 2 to post, thus preventing us from taking the
proper fallout protections for a full day?

I've visited KryptoGorodok many times in my capacity as secret advisor to
the cryptogram column of the New York Times. We of the New York Times knew
about this for many years as part of our appropriate technology exchange
program, in which we gave the Soviets our crossword puzzle construction
secrets in exchange for their cryptogram secrets.

I'm also deeply offended that you should doubt the capabilities of that
distinguised academic and fine woman, Dorothy Denning. Since she performed
her weekend confirmation tests of the cryptosystem using a prototype of the
new Amdahl massively parallel computer, it was as if she had studied the
system for 37,329 years.

Her conclusions are based on the Yerri-Shch factor. Since these constructs
are present in the Russian language, they create vulnerabilities which can
be exploited to break the Kolmogorov Cipher when used with Russian
plaintext, but most European languages are quite secure, with the exception
of Estonian. The Estonians, on discovering this vulnerability, hired a
number of Yiddish code talkers to protect their most valuable
communications, offering them all the chopped herring they could eat in
order to lure them away from the private sector.

One footnote on history, which I know because I'm 153 years old and you
children probably are too young to remember before you were born. Kolmogorov
was really a sneak. His system was largely based on the work of Smirnov, to
whom he gave no credit. Smirnov's attorneys subsequently took him to court,
and though the statute of limitations had expired, they forced him to make
up for it in naming the famous Kolmogorov-Smirnov statistic. This allowed
Smirnov enough of the royalties to emigrate, change his name to Smirnoff,
and the rest is history.

While I'm exposing this crowd, I should tell you that the real cryptological
work in the U.S. isn't done by the NSA, which is a front for secret
alchemical work in turning lead into gold to reduce the deficit. The real
crypto work is done by the successor organization to the American Black
Chamber, the U.S. Bureau of Mines. Until now, they've been very successful
in keeping their classified work in a very dark place

Well, enough telling secrets on the net. I think I hear someone knocking at
my door.

David
April 1, 1994


