Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uchinews!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!asuvax!ennews!ahmed
From: ahmed@inre.asu.edu (Farhan Ahmed)
Subject: MAKE.MONEY.FAST
Message-ID: <CnnHry.A4n@ennews.eas.asu.edu>
Sender: news@ennews.eas.asu.edu (USENET News System)
Nntp-Posting-Host: cncsiris.inre.asu.edu
Organization: Arizona State University
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL0]
Date: Sat, 2 Apr 1994 21:16:45 GMT
Lines: 349


 Just about everyone is interested in trying to make
money.  Some of us have better luck than others.  What
follows is a sure-fire method of making money, FAST,
EASY, and LEGALLY.  It works, folks!  It really works!

        Take a moment, and read through the following text.
If it appeals to you, well then, good luck to you!  If
not, pass it along to some people you know...perhaps
they'll turn it into something (and maybe they'll share
their wealth with you).


        Either way, I wish you all the best of luck!


--------------------------------------------------------
-------

Dear Friends,


        My name is Dave Rhodes.  In September 1988 my car
was repossessed, and the bill collectors were hounding
me like you wouldn't believe.  I was laid off and my
unemployment checks had run out.  The only escape I had
from the pressure of failure was my computer and my
modem.  I longed to turn my avocation into my vocation.

        This January 1989 my family and I went on a ten-day
cruise to the tropics.  I bought a Lincoln Town Car for
CASH in February 1989.  I am currently building a home
on the West Coast of Florida, with a private pool, boat
slip, and a beautiful view of the bay from my breakfast
room table and patio.  I will never have to work again.
Today I am rich!  I have earned over $400,000.00 (Four
Hundred-Thousand Dollars) to date and will become a
millionaire within 4 or 5 months.  Anyone can do the
same.  This money-making program works perfectly every
time, 100% of the time.  I have NEVER failed to earn
$50,000 or more whenever I wanted.  Best of all, you
never have to leave home except to go to your mailbox or
post office.

        In October 1988, I received a letter in the mail
telling me how I could earn $50,000 or more whenever I
wanted.  I was naturally very skeptical and threw the
letter on the desk next to my computer.  It's funny
though, when you are desperate, backed into a corner,
your mind does crazy things.  I spent a frustrating day
looking through the want ads for a job with a future.
The pickings were sparse at best.  That night I tried to
unwind by booting up my computer and calling several
bulletin boards.  I read several of the message posts
and then glanced at the letter next to the computer.
All at once it came to me, I now had the key to my
dreams.

        I realized that with the power of the computer I
could expand and enhance this money-making formula into
the most unbelievable cash flow generator that has ever
been created.  I substituted the computer bulletin
boards in place of the post office and electronically
did by computer what others were doing 100% by mail.
Now only a few letters are mailed manually.  Most of the
hard work is speedily downloaded to other bulletin
boards throughout the world.  If you believe that
someday you deserve that lucky break that you have
waited for all your life, simply follow the easy
instructions below.  Your dreams will come true.


                Sincerely yours,
                Dave Rhodes




                INSTRUCTIONS

Follow these instructions EXACTLY, and in 20 to 60 days
you will have received well over $50,000.00 in cash, all
yours.  This program has remained successful because of
the honesty and integrity of the participants.  Please
continue its success by carefully adhering to the
instructions.


Welcome to the world of Mail Order!  This little
business is a little different than most mail order
houses.  Your product is not solid and tangible, but
rather a service.  You are in the business of developing
mailing lists.  Many large corporations are happy to pay
big bucks for quality lists.


(The money made from the mailing lists are secondary to
the income which is made from people like yourself
requesting that they be included in that list.)


        1)  Immediately mail $1.00 to the first 5 (five)
names listed below starting at number 1 through number
5.  Send CASH only please (total investment $5.00).
Enclose a note with each letter stating:  "Please add my
name to your mailing list."  For other countries, the
equivalent amount may be sent, e.g. in Hong Kong send
HK$10 as this is the lowest denomination note.


        (This is a legitimate service that you are
requesting and you are paying $1.00 for this service.)


        2)  Remove the name that appears number 1 on the
list.  Move the other 9 names up one position.  (Number
2 will become number 1 and number 3 will become number
2, etc.)  Place your name, address, and zip code in the
number 10 position.


        3)  Post the new letter with your name in the
number 10 position into 10 (ten) separate bulletin
boards in the message base or to the file section, call
the file, MAKE.MONEY.FAST.


        4)  Within 60 days you will receive over $50,000.00
in CASH.  Keep a copy of this file for yourself so that
you can use it again and again whenever you need money.
As soon as you mail out these letters you are
automatically in the mail order business and people are
sending you $1.00 to be placed on YOUR mailing list.
This list can then be rented to a list broker that can
be found in the Yellow Pages for additional income on a
regular basis.  This is a service.  This is perfectly
legal.  If you have any doubts, refer to Title 18, Sec.
1302 & 1341 of the postal lottery laws.


        NOTE:  Make sure you retain EVERY name and address
sent to you, either on computer of hard copy, but do not
discard the names and notes they send you.  This is
PROOF that you are truly providing a service and should
the IRS or some other government agency question you,
you can provide them with this proof!


        Remember as each post is downloaded and the
instructions carefully followed, five members will be
reimbursed for their participation as a List Developer
with one dollar each.  Your name will move up the list
geometrically so that when your name reaches the number
5 position, you will be receiving thousands of dollars
in cash.


1. Steven J. Cambria
   203 Oakvale Blvd.
   Kenmore, NY  14223


2. Fredick Dihlman
   Box 388
   St. Bonaventure Univ.
   St. Bonaventure, NY   14778


3. Dennis Le
   8142 19th Street
   Westminster, CA   92683


4. Toni Mason
   2405A Landmark
   Raleigh, NC   27607


5. Kalen Schulteis
   Box 1622
   5500 Wabash Ave.
   Terre Haute, IN   47803


6. Anthony M. Mazzola III
   C.P.U. 171
   300 Grace Watson Circle
   Rochester, NY   14623


7.  Brian Lipman
    1820 Chicago #3002
    Evanston, IL 60201


8. Hong Yang
   99 S. Rock Hampton Dr.
   Madison, AL   35758


9. Paul DeFranco
   222 Melwood Ave.
   APT. 406
   Pittsburgh, PA 15213

10. Farhan Ahmed
    1140 East Orange St. Apt210
    Tempe AZ 85281

The following letters were written by participating
members in this program.


To Whom It May Concern:


        About six months ago I received the enclosed post
in letter form.  I ignored it.  I received about five
more of the same letters within the next two weeks.  I
ignored them also.  Of course, I was tempted to follow
through and dreamed of making thousands, but I was
convinced it was just another gimmick and could not
possibly work.  I was wrong!  About three weeks later I
saw this same letter posted on a local bulletin board in
Montreal.  I liked the idea of giving it a try with my
computer.  I didn't expect much because, I figured, if
other people were as skeptical as I, they wouldn't be
too quick to part with Five Dollars.  But, I buy lottery
tickets weekly in my province and have nothing to show
for them but ticket stubs.  This week I decided to look
at this as my weekly lottery purchase.  I addressed the
envelope and mailed out one dollar in each as directed.
Two weeks went by and I rolled around and I couldn't
believe what happened!  I can't say I received $50,000,
but it was definitely well over $35,000!  For the first
time in ten years, I got out of debt.  It was great.  Of
course, it didn't take me long to go through my
earnings, so I am using this excellent money opportunity
once again.  Follow the instructions and get ready to
enjoy.


        Please send a copy of this letter along with the
enclosed letter so together we can convince people who
are skeptical that it really works!


                Good Luck,
                Charles Kust
                St. Agathe, Que.


Another letter:

        I tried a similar program in which the cost was
$5.00 per response.  In that on the return was about 3%.
Since I did not have a modem, I sent out letters regular
mail.  I created a few mailing labels and printed out
all of the labels on pressure sensitive tape.  The first
mailing that I used the $1.00 per response approach I
started to get return mail in just over one week!  I
sent out 200 letters instead of 100 that is required if
you use the mail instead of the bulletin boards.
Additionally, I included as many friends, relatives,
classmates, that I could think of in order to encourage
their participation if they happened to recognize my
name, so my percentage of gain was higher.  I am trying
again with 500 letters to see if I surpass the $141,000
of the last time.  You just won't believe it until you
try.

        Best Wishes,
        Mark Garner
        Dallas, TX


Additional Notes:


        This system works equally well if mailed out
manually.  Mind you it takes more effort to hand address
the envelopes and the cost goes up proportionately to
cover the postage and envelopes.  You must also
photocopy the instructions, cross out the name in number
1 position, write in your name in the number 10 slot and
change the rest of the numbers accordingly.  (It might
be neater to use white out or paste over the names.)  In
order to achieve the same results you must send out the
$1.00 to the first five names and then send out another
100 letters with copies of the program enclosed.  It has
been suggested not to put a return address on the
outside of the envelope in order to encourage the
recipient to open it.  The return will approximate that
then received from the posts listed on the bulletin
boards.


        Hello, my name is Farhan Ahmed.  As you may have
noticed I'm the tenth name on this list, so I do not
have a rags-to-riches story to tell here.  However, I
did make a phone call to the 2nd name on this list.
Did he have a rags-to-riches story to tell ?
Not exactly, but then I found out that he did
not follow the instructions precisely.  You see, he 
lost faith in the program before he had finished
following instructions.  He only uploaded this file on one BBS.
He has received $92.00 to date (1/6/90).  I realize
this is far from the $50,000 promised at the first of
this file, yet one must keep two things in mind:

        1. $92.00 is almost 10 times his initial
investment, and it only took about an hour of his time
(there's nothing to lose).

        2. This program works mathematically on an
exponential scale.  In other words, for every one BBS
that this file is uploaded onto, it should spread to at
least ten other BBSs and possibly a whole lot more.  So,
if Ernest had uploaded his file on all ten BBSs, he
should have at least gotten a hundred-fold of what he
has, which would be $9,200.00.  Not bad for a few hours
work and a $6.25 investment (including postage).

        Finally, I would like to exhort those who become
involved in this program to maintain its integrity by
being honest.  It is the only way that it can possibly
pay off.  In other words, be sure to enter your name at
the bottom of the list and not in one of the top 5
positions (actually this would be robbing yourself since
it is while your name is in the lower positions that it
gets multiplied exponentially over hundreds of BBSs).
And, of course, send your $1.00 off to the first five
names.  As I write this I have not made a penny (that's
because I have not uploaded this yet), but I thought you
might like to hear from someone at the bottom of the
list, instead of someone claiming rags-to-riches.  I
hope such is true, and I'm sure  it will be if we all
stick with it.  The potential is definitely there!


        P.S. Call me if you get rich.

|||| |  |||| | |  |  |  | |"What a piece of work is a man! how noble in reason!
|   | | |  | | | | | || | | how infinite in faculties! in form and moving how
||| ||| |||  ||| ||| | || | express and admirable! in action how like an angel!
|   | | |  | | | | | |  | | in apprehension how like a god!"
  Farhan.Ahmed@asu.edu    |                                -- Hamlet II.ii
 

