Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!usc!yeshua.marcam.com!hookup!news.sprintlink.net!news.clark.net!hal
From: hal@clark.net (hal)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: AT+T Cellular Privacy
Date: 3 Apr 1994 13:51:58 GMT
Organization: Clark Internet Services, Inc., Ellicott City, MD USA
Lines: 38
Message-ID: <2nmhlu$bcu@clarknet.clark.net>
References: <slansky_doug-300394172236@mac-an-48.cig.mot.com> <2nemqd$cj1@falcon.ccs.uwo.ca> <slansky_doug-310394160816@mac-an-48.cig.mot.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: clark.net
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

Doug Slansky (slansky_doug@macmail1.cig.mot.com) wrote:
: I have received further information RE: my origional post.

: quoting from David R. Arneke (with permission):

: "The scrambling algorithim uses split-band frequency inversion, translation
: of the upper band's frequencies, frequency dispersion of both bands, time
: compression of both bands, and independant time displacement of the
: individual bands."

: Furthermore,

: "The combinations are determined by a key generator driven by a common key
: that is negotiated for each privacy activation by using a public key
: technique.  This is the strongest scrambling algorithim available for

This is a surprisingly old scrambling scheme although I do know that the
government has permitted its export to friendly users abroad since about
1982.Back them a group of us thought up an attack on this system. 
Visualize it as a checkerboard time along the x axis and frequency along
the y. Squares in this checkerboard are permuted in both x and y
directions (time and frequency). By using a DSP card and a sun works
station and knowing a little about how the voice works (not to mention the
language spoken) its possible to develop a search tree and brune
impossible, unlikely or improbable branches quickly. The scheme is not
exact real time but runs a little behind the input text. Depends how much
compute power you use too. I think this scheme also had a preamble
timeword at the start of a transmission. Users didn't like the delay with
this at all. Anyway, the thing to remember with breaking this scheme is
not to get hung up trying to break the key. Thats not necessary and
depending upon what they use it could be impossible. 

I think an old copy of the Bell Technical Journal actually describes
this scheme in some detail. Security aside, it does conserve bandwidth
and the quality of the speakers voice. Of course, more security means
you have to go digital which is the usual practice these days.


