Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp,alt.security.ripem
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!wupost!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Key Servers, Certificates, and "big brother"
Message-ID: <strnlghtCnr4J1.7tp@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <2no8tc$dt@agate.berkeley.edu>
Date: Mon, 4 Apr 1994 20:20:32 GMT
Lines: 44
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:25475 alt.security.pgp:10935 alt.security.ripem:638

In article <2no8tc$dt@agate.berkeley.edu>,
Tommy the Tourist  <nobody@soda.berkeley.edu> wrote:

>If publicly registering a crypto key is anything like registering a
>firearm in pre-Nazi Germany, then maybe there IS something to worry about.
>The same drivel that passes for "logic" -- "guns are only made for killing
>people" could also be applied to crypto as well: "if you have no evil to
>hide, why encrypt your correspondence".  If crypto should ever become
>illegal, or stringently controlled, a key server would yield "Big Brother"
>with a nice list of "the usual suspects", wouldn't it? 
>

I wouldn't worry about it. In order to insure authenticity, a vast number of
people register their keys with one of a number of formal heirarchies,
including that run by RSA, those run by many companies for their employees,
etc. Everybody who uses Apple's Macintosh System 7 Pro operating system gets
a coupon for a free key registration with a key heirarchy run by RSA (to
prove it's you, you have to bring 3 IDs including at least one Photo ID to
to a notary public, sign the pre-printed key registration form with your
encrypted public key and pass phrase on it (encrypted with RSA's key) in the
presence of the Notary who also notarizes and signs it after entering the ID
numbers of your identifications. Usually, one is your state driver's
license. You then mail the thing to RSA and get a disk back with your
certificate, also properly protected.

My guess is there may soon be more key owners registered than gun owners.
The "usual suspects" would not only be a huge list, but most on the list
would be "respectable businesspeople".

I'd say that those who are found to be using crypto but who aren't on a
commonly used key server or certificate heirarchy are far more likely to
come under suspicion in a "big brother" scenario than those who are
registered with, say, RSADSI Inc. I, myself have two such certificates--a
"persona" certificate which says only that someone claiming to be me
registered the associated key (low assurance) but has the advantage that it
doesn't expire, and a "high assurance" (the notarized one) certificate. I
think what I'll do is sign my low assurance persona-certified key with my
certified high assurance key, certificate and all. Then, even though the
high assurance key might expire (if I don't renew it), there's still a link
from the non-expiring persona certificate to the "real me" (as far as 3 IDs
including a photo ID of a quality sufficient to satisfy RSADSI is the real
me).

David
