Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!wupost!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: Mr. Sternlight; and moderated sci.crypt.???
Message-ID: <strnlghtCnr8J6.EHy@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <41901@mindlink.bc.ca> <D> <al.shaver.11.0009C476@clemsonsc.ncr.com>
Date: Mon, 4 Apr 1994 21:47:29 GMT
Lines: 63

In article <al.shaver.11.0009C476@clemsonsc.ncr.com>,
Al Shaver <al.shaver@ClemsonSC.NCR.COM> wrote:

>
>I concede this point also, and withdraw my request.  Argue with Mr. Sternlight 
>all you want.  As an alternative, I would now urge support for a moderated 
>newsgroup (preferably sci.crypt.theory).

I've supported the idea of a moderated forum from the time it was first
proposed. I don't read talk.politics.crypto, nor
mumble.politics.datahighway.

Most of the "long" threads you seem to dislike arise when someone makes a
comment I think inaccurate and I respond or when I make an observation that
doesn't fit someone else's views. At that point we're off to the races. I
try not to continue threads where a view is blatantly provocative, or when
it is stupid on its face, or when it is someone's legitimate opinion,
presented as such. When someone engages directly and on substance, I'll
carry the conversation as far as seems warranted.

Most recently I've abandoned my liberal training in one respect. I've become
convinced after several on and off the kill list episodes, that certain
specific individuals are determined to be incivil, offensive,
non-substantive, etc. Some will never correct their mistakes even when
caught red-handed over a factual matter. Some seem schiziod--they mix
substantive posts with deliberate offense. I've finally adopted a policy of
kill filing such people permanently, and not reading killed messages even to
see if the individuals have changed their behavior. I find it leads to much
shorter threads and a much greater atmosphere of the sort I want in the
privacy of my home or office--civil, logical, rational, and substantive,
keeping out playground bullies, hoodlums, those who seek deliberately to be
rude under the mistaken notion it adds something to their self-image or the
image held of them by others.

In the interest of even-handedness, I urge anyone who thinks I fit into any
of the above categories to kill file me. No reason one can't have the
atmosphere one wants in the privacy of one's own machine.

This kill file policy has one downside, which makes some hesitate to use it.
That is that someone on one's kill file may unfairly or wrongly attack one,
and not having seen that message, one cannot respond. However, those whose
respect I care about understand that silence in the face of attack does not
constitute assent, and having used this policy for a little while now, I've
found the world hasn't come to an end.

I did try one previous kill file policy--kill filing the individuals in
question, but then reading each numbered message my newsreader killed. It
was a kind of "watch out for this guy and don't get sucked in" warning. But
I found after a while that none of those whose messages were flagged by my
kill file had anything useful to say that I'd be sorry to have missed, on
substance. That's when I moved to the more strict-with-myself kill file
policy I now use.

In any case, if someone has something serious to say to one in a civil
manner, there's always e-mail. Some of the worst offenders here are
often polite in e-mail where they don't have an audience to grandstand
for.

As for anyone tempted to reply with "pot calling the kettle black"
responses, If that's how you feel, by all means feel it. But you get no
cleverness or ego points for posting it.

David
