Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!news.umbc.edu!haven.umd.edu!ames!ncar!asuvax!pitstop.mcd.mot.com!mcdphx!schbbs!mothost!mdisea!mmddvan!vanbc.wimsey.com!nemesis.wimsey.com!Stu
From: Stu@nemesis.wimsey.com (Stuart Smith)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Ideas on reducing noise & inappropriate posts
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <765562001Stu.stu@nemesis.wimsey.com>
Sender: stu@nemesis.wimsey.com
Date: Tue, 05 Apr 94 08:06:41 pst
Organization: The Puzzle Palace
X-Newsreader: TRN for OS/2
Lines: 55

As you know, the idea of a moderated cryptography forum has been
raised again, and while I will support the creation of such a
group, I have some ideas to help us out in the meantime.

1.	Post the FAQ *more* frequently.  Perhaps edit the intro on net
etiquette, emphasizing the importance of selecting the correct
group to post to.  The FAQ as is does suggest some alternative
groups, but generally, the issue of off-topic posts is treated
lightly, with the emphasis placed on "How do I introduce a new
cryptosystem"  I've seen far more useless posts that belonged
elsewhere than I've seen ciphertext only challenges.  Also, the
netiquette section could be moved up, maybe even before the
index, to make sure people see it.  A basic discussion on when
to post and when to reply by mail would also be useful.

2.  The FAQ, being rather huge and informative, is perhaps
a bad choice for posting more than once every 2 weeks, (currently
posted once every *3* weeks however), so I propose we create
a mini-FAQ or "Intro to Sci.crypt" which could be posted every
week or even more frequently.  This intro or welcome could
simply contain a brief talk about what sci.crypt is all about
what is is not and *why*, a list of alternative sources of info
about PGP, Clipper, Politics etc etc and of course basic
cryptography.  The location of the FAQ & how frequently its
posted could also be included, plus the discussion on posting vs.
email.

In another newsgroup, a reader expressed the idea that a FAQ, at
least for that particular newsgroup, should be abandoned because
of the social nature of the group.  A response which I thought
hit the nail on the head, was that a FAQ, or periodic posting in
general, set the tone for a group.  I think this is one of our
biggest problems.

When a new reader comes to sci.crypt, the dominant "tone" they
perceive is that of political discussion, PGP, flame David Sternlight
software patents etc etc., so anyone who's game on these topics
ignores the FAQ which they probably haven't seen anyways, not
to mention the very name of the group and jumps into the fray.

And as always, the best way to affect the tone of the group is to
ignore all the flames & irrelevant posts, or move them elsewhere,
perferrably to mail.

This are just my ideas or proposals if you will, if you must
rip them apart, do it gently, so we can create something better
in their wake.  That aside, comments are appreciated and
encouraged.  If they go anywhere, I hereby volunteer to help
write a mini-faq/intro/welcome and post it.

--
 Baba baby mama shaggy papa baba bro baba rock a shaggy baba sister
shag saggy hey doc baba baby shaggy hey baba can you dig it baba baba
E7 E3 90 7E 16 2E F3 45 * Email for PGP key * 28 24 2E C6 03 02 37 5C 
   Stuart Smith                           <stu@nemesis.wimsey.com>
