Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!straits
From: straits@netcom.com (Stewart C. Strait)
Subject: Re: Creation of .theory or .research
Message-ID: <straitsCnxAEG.Mn9@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
References: <2niut8$qud@kaiwan.kaiwan.com>
Date: Fri, 8 Apr 1994 04:13:27 GMT
Lines: 36

Jay Jakosky (matrix@kaiwan.com) wrote [in part]:
: 	The ability to exchange ideas with noted cryptologists,
: cryptographers, and cryptanalysts obviously was the orginal intent of 
: sci.crypt.  With the influx of disruptive, abusive, and inconsiderate 
: users onto the Net this intent has been written over with off-topic 
: conversation, flames, and poorly placed posts (the latter being possibly 
: excusable).
: 	I support the creation of a moderated sci.crypt.theory or 
: sci.crypt.research to provide the quality, informative discussions that 
: should be in sci.crypt and talk.politics.crypto.

1. I feel that people who favor this kind of proposal should express
willingness to support a new group that isn't exactly what they consider
optimum.  If the status quo only has minority support and a bunch
of related proposals have a majority if taken together, the backers
of these proposals could take an informal vote as to which proposal
will be formally supported by them.

2.  As I said about a year ago, the names sci.crypt.theory and .research
can be interpreted as excluding discussion of mathematical and historical
background that is no longer of 'theoretical' or 'research' interest.
IMO, excluding 'intermediate' questions on systems that were
laborious or impossible to break prior to computers would restrict
the newsgroup to a tiny volume of current research plus a somewhat
bigger volume of discussion on public key ciphers and contemporary
block ciphers (DES, IDEA, etc.).  A disadvantage of this restriction
is that no cryptanalytic algorithms could even be outlined, since
all systems whose solution can be outlined in a reasonable sized post
would be off-topic. Of course, I'm biased since I especially want
to read 'intermediate' level discussion.

Perhaps someone can suggest another name or some unrelated way to
avoid discouraging these topics.
-- 
Stewart C. Strait
straits@netcom.com
