Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.cpsr.talk,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: "Open Sesame"--MacNeil-Lehrer Report on Clipper
Message-ID: <strnlghtCnxLEC.CtC@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <tcmayCnwxuJ.LE1@netcom.com>
Date: Fri, 8 Apr 1994 08:10:59 GMT
Lines: 62
Xref: msuinfo talk.politics.crypto:4327 comp.org.cpsr.talk:19 comp.org.eff.talk:31444 alt.privacy.clipper:3731 sci.crypt:25670

In article <tcmayCnwxuJ.LE1@netcom.com>,
Timothy C. May <tcmay@netcom.com> wrote:
>"Open Sesame"--MacNeil-Lehrer Report on Clipper
>     
>I just finished watching--and videotaping--the 11.5 minute report by
>Philip Elmer-Dewitt on Clipper and related topics.

I, too watched and taped it.

I thought there was a bit of sloppiness in Philip's report, which casts
doubt on two points he made which otherwise would be sensational news for
these discussion groups.

The sloppiness was in describing escrow as a "back door". I've mentioned
this to Phil before. If anything, it's a front door.

The two points are:

"The NSA has never met a cryptosystem they could't break, and they want to
keep it that way."

"The NSA guarantee that Clipper is unbreakable."

(I've added sci.crypt to the distribution list because of the above two
comments. sci.crypt readers are invited to ignore the rest of the material
in this message, which is not relevant to that newsgroup.)

This may be more of Phil's careless reporting (we've seen some of it in
Time on the same topic), or it may be something the NSA whispered in his
ear. He recited those two sentences while standing next to an Enigma and a
Cray in the NSA Crypto Museum. By the way, though the above two remarks
seem mutually contradictory, a moment's thought will show that they need not
be.

I was surprised to see that Jerry Berman was a silver-haired,
business-executive-looking type; that Whitfield Diffie looked as if he were
pulled out of Woodstock and poured into a suit for the occasion, and that
Marc Rotenberg had the wild-eyed look of the true believer. These are all
subjective impressions and I mean no offense by any of them.

There was a nice screen shot of one of our several Internet discussion
groups, and messages from the usual suspects were listed, including this
correspondent. It looked as if the Mac screen had been blown up for
legibility on TV--I guess they were using 16 point type or some such.

One big omission in Phil's report, which I thought slanted the presentation,
was a failure to focus on the voluntary nature of Clipper and on the White
House statement about not banning non-Clipper crypto, while giving air time
to two people who were sure this was the start of big brother banning other
crypto, interfering with the right to have private political conversations,
etc.  Another was that the only comments about business were about the
opposition from special pleaders--those who were in the business of making
and selling crypto/hardware themselves, but there was no balancing material
from companies who were potential clipper users and would welcome a system
the NSA "guarantees is uncrackable", even with escrow.

On the other hand, Phil did mention the new information that (in an
interview clip) improper access to the keys was a felony punishable by five
years in jail, and the NIST person's statement that the system was safe
against "rogue law enforcement people."

David
