Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!wupost!udel!news.sprintlink.net!news.clark.net!hal
From: hal@clark.net (hal)
Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.cpsr.talk,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Subject: Re: "Open Sesame"--MacNeil-Lehrer Report on Clipper
Followup-To: talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.cpsr.talk,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Date: 8 Apr 1994 13:28:05 GMT
Organization: Clark Internet Services, Inc., Ellicott City, MD USA
Lines: 29
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <2o3m55$4p9@clarknet.clark.net>
References: <tcmayCnwxuJ.LE1@netcom.com> <strnlghtCnxLEC.CtC@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: clark.net
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
Xref: msuinfo talk.politics.crypto:4330 comp.org.cpsr.talk:21 comp.org.eff.talk:31455 alt.privacy.clipper:3734 sci.crypt:25674


The point about being unbalanced is very fair. The debate about clipper 
has chiefly been based on an incomplete statement of fact. I rather think 
the opponents to clipper have successfully framed an indefensible
version of the question for public debate. That the underling issues
clipper tries (perhaps stupidly) to solve will not go away 
should clipper be dumped, must be evident. But I don't see this fact
conditioning many peoples arguments. More knowledgable opponents
do in fact try to weight the policy problems that clipper was designed
to solve. Politically, I will be surprised if clipper gets past far the
April  congressional hearings. But somehwere and sometime the issues
that underly clippe will be back. 

What must be amusing is how the clipper debate is not a debate about 
clipper at all but rather a public relations exercise in controlling
the question. But, I suppose inside the beltway they have known that
for years. 


CPSR did score a good point at the NIST privacy advisory board when they 
showed an editoral that said: Clipper (key escrow) means giving up some
of our rights, the government has shown few or no  cases that it has 
lost (that have gotten away) because of encryption. Shouldn't we wait 
until many cases are lost because of encryption before we give up
rights?  (poorly restated from memory).


Well David, whats your two cents on this?

