Path: msuinfo!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!csn!news.sinet.slb.com!dcd
From: dcd@se.houston.geoquest.slb.com (Dan Day)
Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp,comp.org.cpsr.talk
Subject: Re: McNeil/Lehrer Clipper feature
Date: 9 Apr 1994 01:08:52 GMT
Organization: GeoQuest System, Inc. Houston
Lines: 36
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2o4v74$92o@sndsu1.sinet.slb.com>
References: <EB2837.94Apr8115156@cesn12.cen.uiuc.edu> <ped-080494175009@ped.dialup.access.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: mudd.se.houston.geoquest.slb.com
Xref: msuinfo talk.politics.crypto:4354 sci.crypt:25711 alt.security.pgp:11165 comp.org.cpsr.talk:29

In article <ped-080494175009@ped.dialup.access.net> ped@panix.com (Philip Elmer-DeWitt) writes:
>
>"It may sound like spies vs nerds.  But at the heart of the 
>Clipper debate is a fundamental question of constitutional rights.
>One side thinks that people have a basic right to use the most 
>powerful encryption tools they can get their hands on to keep 
>their affairs private.  The other thinks that that right must 
>be superceded by the legitimate needs of law enforcement."

Is there any particular reason the phrase "legitimate needs of
law enforcement" was worded in the way it was?  Every time I
hear this phrase I want to cringe.  It's one of those innocent
looking phrases that turn out to be terribly loaded when you
take a closer look at it.  After all, who could possibly be
against the "legitimate" needs of law enforcement?  If it's legitimate,
surely no one would mind, would they?

The problem, of course, is that different people have very different
ideas about what is entailed by the "legitimate needs of law
enforcement", and the phrase therefore has very little information
content but a lot of ability to mislead.

It reminds me of a survey question I once saw: "Do you favor
laws placing reasonable restrictions on the availability of firearms?"
Needless the say, the answer was overwhelmingly positive, for few
people are so contrary as to be *against* something which is "reasonable".
However, the answers received were nearly meaningless, since each respondent
had a very different idea about what is meant by "reasonable restrictions".
Nonetheless, that didn't stop the organization who conducted the survey
from trumpeting the "fact" that "the overwhelming majority of people
are in favor of stricter gun control".

Beware of terms that seem to automatically paint the opposition as
unreasonable, while remaining safely vague -- whether it be "pro-life",
"People for the American Way", "The Moral Majority", or "the legitimate
needs of law enforcement".
