Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!ames!olivea!apple.com!amd!amdint.amd.com!angelo!bagbyd
From: bagbyd@angelo.amd.com (David Bagby)
Subject: Wireless LAN security advice request.
Message-ID: <CnywMF.1Au@amd.com>
Keywords: WLAN Wireless security 
Sender: usenet@amd.com (NetNews Admin)
Organization: Advanced Micro Devices, Santa Clara, CA
Date: Sat, 9 Apr 1994 01:11:03 GMT
Lines: 90


Hi, I'd like to ask this news group for some advice with a security
design problem. 

My name is Dave Bagby, and I Chair the MAC (media access 
control) portion of the IEEE 802.11 Wireless LAN standard efforts.

There is a strong recognition that security is a key issue for wireless 
LANs. IEEE 802.11 has decided to adopt the framework specified 
by 802.10 to provide  both privacy and authentication. (802.10 is a 
layer that lives between 802 LLC and 802 MAC.) 802.10 is a 
general purpose framework that allows one to create any degree of 
privacy by invoking whatever cryptographic algorithm is considered 
appropriate for the LAN's uses. Unfortunately, the 802.10 standard 
punts the issues of specific algorithms - it assumes that when two 
entities want to communicate, they both implicitly understand that 
algorithm number 5 means that they should both use the XYZ 
encryption algorithm.

This leaves 802.11 (the wireless LAN group) with an interesting 
problem. In addition to the ability to run an unsecured network (not 
all LANs are anticipated to want privacy), many in the group would 
like to specify an encryption algorithm that all 802.11 stations 
would be required to implement to be compliant. What has stopped 
progress is that we are not cryptographic experts and do not know 
what cryptographic approach would meet our goals.

I would like to hear any suggestions of approach etc. that this group 
thinks appropriate for Wireless LAN security. I am restricting my 
request to the privacy aspect of cryptography - 802.10 is flexible 
enough to meet our perceived authentication needs.

The requirements 802.11 is looking to satisfy are:

1) Wired Equivalency:
For this need we are NOT looking for absolute, unbreakable 
security. Please understand, in this context we are looking for an 
algorithm that ALL stations would be required to implement - this 
imposes some limitations. Specifically, the group has decided that it 
wants a level of privacy that is best described as: "equivalent to the 
security of a wired LAN". What we are aiming at is the use of 
cryptography to replace the physical security aspects of a wire. If 
all stations had this ability, we could then confidently state that the 
addition of a wireless segment to an existing wired LAN would 
NOT degrade the current security level of the wired LAN. 

Before anyone is tempted to campaign for "they have to do better 
than that", please recognize that this is NOT THE ONLY crypto alg 
that an 802.11 system may implement for privacy - just the one that 
meets minimal needs which we hope all stations will support.

2) Stream or block:
802.11 is a packet (block) environment in the sense that data is 
handed to the MAC layer in finite chunks: it is also a stream 
environment in the sense that bits are shipped serially across the 
PHY physical) layer (via IR or RF). 

802 LLC layer --> packet of data -->> 802.11 MAC --> 
--> 802.11 PHY ---> serial data on media.

3) Hdw vs. Sftw:
The alg should not be restricted to either software or hardware. The 
committee will probably not accept a solution that is only one or the 
other.

4) Data rate:
The alg must be able to handle the data rates on the WLAN. The 
initial PHY layers are 1-2 Mbits, but future PHY layers could be 
much faster depending on spectrum availability etc.. It is best to 
design for the high end. The charter of 802 is rate from 1-20 Mbs. 
Think of the design limit as 20.

5) Exportable:
Since we are talking about a required feature, we need exportability 
(from the US). I realize that this means a limited privacy level - 
hopefully this is not incompatible the wired equivalent goals.
(wired LANs are exportable).

6) Royalty:
No royalty is much better than royalty based. While 802.11 is not 
prevented from adopting a solution with royalties, it is much, much 
harder to get the committee to accept this over a royalty free 
solution.

Any suggestions? Ideas? Pointers?

David Bagby
Chair 802.11 MAC group
david.bagby@amd.com
Office: (408) 987-2423 (PDT)
