Newsgroups: comp.security.misc,alt.security,sci.crypt,alt.2600
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!ulowell!wang!fitz
From: fitz@wang.com (Tom Fitzgerald)
Subject: Re: Jitec claim world's first virus-proof computer
Organization: Wang Labs, Lowell MA, USA
Date: Fri, 8 Apr 1994 20:17:42 GMT
Message-ID: <CnyJ1J.8M8@wang.com>
References: <2o3q7s$319@bmerha64.bnr.ca> <FAIGIN.94Apr8092012@solarium.aero.org>
Sender: news@wang.com
Nntp-Posting-Host: fnord.wang.com
Lines: 26
Xref: msuinfo comp.security.misc:9130 alt.security:15715 sci.crypt:25710 alt.2600:6263

faigin@aero.org (Daniel P. Faigin) writes:

> MS-DOS systems have the property that the operating system is in the same
> domain as applications; thus applications can muck with the operating system.
> In most other systems (for example, most Unixii), the operating system runs
> in a different mode, and application programs cannot tamper with the
> operating systems.  ...  Anything with this characteristic
> should be immune from viruses that attack the operating system.

Viruses can run as root (or bin, or mem, or whatever username is locally
employed to protect executables and the memory device).  What really
protects Unix systems from viruses in the strict sense is that Unix users
rarely pass around executables to be run on other systems.  Viruses don't
propogate unless people share binaries.  On Unix systems, nearly all the
binaries are installed out of the box from vendor media and never changed,
or are built from sources on the system they're run on, and never moved.
Yah you can infect some programs and leave them sitting around to be run by
other users, but why bother since they'll never leave your site?

Worms and trojans will be a problem with Unix boxes (increasingly as time
goes by and multimedia gets popular with people who don't know how to
protect themselves), but viruses will probably never be a big problem.

-- 
Tom Fitzgerald   Wang Labs   Lowell MA, USA   1-508-967-5278   fitz@wang.com
Pardon me, I'm lost, can you direct me to the information superhighway?
