Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.cpsr.talk,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!abell
From: abell@netcom.com (Steven T. Abell)
Subject: Re: "Open Sesame"--MacNeil-Lehrer Report on Clipper
Message-ID: <abellCo0E3u.9CI@netcom.com>
Organization: Netcom Online Communications Services (408-241-9760 login: guest)
References: <strnlghtCnxLEC.CtC@netcom.com> <2o3m55$4p9@clarknet.clark.net> <strnlghtCnzJ79.74G@netcom.com>
Distribution: inet
Date: Sat, 9 Apr 1994 20:26:18 GMT
Lines: 34
Xref: msuinfo talk.politics.crypto:4402 comp.org.cpsr.talk:45 comp.org.eff.talk:31589 alt.privacy.clipper:3789 sci.crypt:25741

David Sternlight writes:
>Prohibiting the manufacture and export of nuclear weapons to Saddam means
>giving up some of our rights. The government has shown few or no cases where
>he's dropped an atom bomb on us. Shouldn't we wait until New York or
>Washington are lost beacause of a Saddam bomb before we give up rights?

Ah, yes, the "But What If They Were Nuclear Weapons?" argument.

But they're *not* nuclear weapons, David. Individuals have no legitimate use
for nuclear weapons, and even governments have few.

With the advent of personal computers, the Should The Government Allow Strong
Crypto debate becomes just like the Should The Government Allow Firearms
debate: it can only be carried on by ignoring important facts of existence.
Firearms are easily-produced objects for which individuals do have legitimate
uses, one of which is to keep the government in line. Attempts to limit their
manufacture and sale can achieve nothing except to put individuals at risk
from the two classes of people who will always have them: those who don't
want to consider your rights (criminals) and those who don't have to consider
your rights (the government). Reliable firearms in private hands used to be
an adequate defense for a free people. Now we need another ally: strong
crypto, which is easily produced, and for which individuals do have legitimate
uses. The cat is out of the bag. Attempts to stuff it back in will only make
criminals or victims out of people who want to live their lives in peace,
which means: most of us.

How long can you trust an open-loop control system? Hearing that fellow who
has assumed the mantle of Washington and Jefferson whining that back-door
crypto is a practical necessity makes me retch. Assurances that oppression
will never take place are laughable.

He should know that.

Steven T. abell@netcom.com
