Path: msuinfo!uchinews!ncar!asuvax!pitstop.mcd.mot.com!mcdphx!schbbs!mothost!delphinium.cig.mot.com!mac-an-48.cig.mot.com!user
From: slansky_doug@macmail1.cig.mot.com (Doug Slansky)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Recognizing Plaintext...
Followup-To: sci.crypt
Date: 7 Apr 1994 13:52:48 GMT
Organization: Motorola CIG APD
Lines: 39
Message-ID: <slansky_doug-070494084511@mac-an-48.cig.mot.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: mac-an-48.cig.mot.com

While working my way through Applied Cryptography, I spent some time
looking over his estimates for brute-force key cracking for various key
lengths.  His computations run on the order of 1 million 56 bit key
combinations per second, and I was wondering how the computer knows when it
has the right key.

For example, if I had a page of cyphertext that I knew was encrypted using
56 bit single DES, and I wanted to mount a brute-force key attack (I don't
have the plaintext, or my question becomes obvious...).  As I try each key,
the program (or hardware, or whatever) must check to see if it has arrived
at plaintext or not.  How do I make such a determination.  I was
considering using the statistical probablility of finding common words
(e.g. "the", "and", etc..) or a common statistical distribution of letters
(assuming a large enough cyphertext sample, of course).  Am I way off here?

Along the same lines, I was reading of his estimates that a dictionary
attack such as he outlines will break 25%-33% of log-on passwords.  How
would I know?  Also, wouldn't it be fairly simple to only allow some small
number of failed log-ons before automatic disconnect, sysadmin alert, etc.
that would greatly hinder such an attack.

I realize that a large part of this book is fairly theoretical, but the
book does contain source code and practical advice.  Maybe I haven't read
far enough.....

BTW, I have read through the FAQ, and hope that I haven't offended anyone
with the simplicity of my questions.

Thanks,

doug

-- 
Doug Slansky
Motorola Cellular Infrastructure Group
Advanced Products Division
AKA: slvrsrf178@aol.com

"Yeah, Right"
