Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.cpsr.talk,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!abell
From: abell@netcom.com (Steven T. Abell)
Subject: Re: "Open Sesame"--MacNeil-Lehrer Report on Clipper
Message-ID: <abellCo2HyH.124@netcom.com>
Organization: Netcom Online Communications Services (408-241-9760 login: guest)
References: <2o8b9u$5v7@news.acns.nwu.edu> <abellCo22yr.I02@netcom.com> <strnlghtCo2Etu.JFF@netcom.com>
Distribution: inet
Date: Sun, 10 Apr 1994 23:44:40 GMT
Lines: 37
Xref: msuinfo talk.politics.crypto:4481 comp.org.cpsr.talk:81 comp.org.eff.talk:31757 alt.privacy.clipper:3858 sci.crypt:25791

David Sternlight writes:
>There is plenty of auditing and plenty of reporting requirements in the
>Clipper system. It's not an open-loop control system.

Of the government, by the government, for the government. Doesn't qualify.
If you'll look at the Declaration of Independence, you'll see that it's
a preemption by the people of the existing government. The Bill of Rights
is the same thing. There has to be a means of preempting a government that's
out of control. A government that moves to make itself non-preemptible is
inherently dangerous, regardless of the benevolence and good intentions of
those who are running it. The First Amendment is the first line of defense;
the Second Amendment is the last. The First Amendment is ailing these
days (to say nothing of what's happening to the Second), what with various
governmutants claiming that digital data transmission is neither speech nor
press. Widespread strong crypto is an important part of the immune system
of the body politic. It's now part of what closes the control loop between
the government and the governed. Assumptions that the government will control
itself are incredibly naive. 

>As to "rights" retained by the people, what rights are you talking about, in
>the present context? Recall that the proposal is such that Clipper is
>voluntary.

And any real discussion of this by non-government sources eventually gets
around to wondering what good it can do while voluntary, and then starts
wondering how long it will remain so, probably with good reason. Of course,
there is the available markets argument: any encrypted traffic with the
government boys will have to use Clipper, and since everybody has to talk
to the government boys pretty often these days, it's going to get hard to
find hardware crypto of any other flavor. Which means that it's going to
get hard to find telephones, fax machines, or modems that don't use the
damn things. Somebody's hoping most people won't care enough to resist this.

Mr. Clinton has said that I don't have a right to strong crypto.
He is mistaken.

Steven T. abell@netcom.com
