Path: msuinfo!agate!news.ossi.com!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!usc!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!blanket.mitre.org!linus.mitre.org!linus!mbunix!eachus
From: eachus@spectre.mitre.org (Robert I. Eachus)
Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.cpsr.talk,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Pearl Harbor (was Re: "Open Sesame"...)
Date: 11 Apr 94 15:00:19
Organization: The Mitre Corp., Bedford, MA.
Lines: 101
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <EACHUS.94Apr11150019@spectre.mitre.org>
References: <strnlghtCnxLEC.CtC@netcom.com> <strnlghtCnzJ79.74G@netcom.com>
	<abellCo0E3u.9CI@netcom.com> <2o7id2$rk0@news.acns.nwu.edu>
	<strnlghtCo17ry.BAC@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: spectre.mitre.org
In-reply-to: strnlght@netcom.com's message of Sun, 10 Apr 1994 07:07:09 GMT
Xref: msuinfo talk.politics.crypto:4524 comp.org.cpsr.talk:120 comp.org.eff.talk:31848 alt.privacy.clipper:3890 sci.crypt:25854

In article <strnlghtCo17ry.BAC@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:

 > This is an argument with blinders on. Consider how many lives could have
 > been saved at Pearl Harbor if the traffic from Japan had been decrypted more
 > rapidly. Consider the terrorist plots thwarted. Consider the insights into,
 > say, Saddam's war plans.

   Okay, let's consider that David...  There were intercepts in Hawaii
which not be read locally because of bureaucratic bungling (these were
low level codes, as well as PURPLE).  If you have forgotten, re-read
the first chapter of the Codebreakers.  I've had a few people add
details, but no knowledgeable person has ever disagreed (to me) with
the description in Kahn.  At lunch today we were discussing the delay
in getting the information from the White House to Admiral Kimmel, but
there is no question that the White House had the intercepts of the
14-part message well before the Japanese Embassy finished decrypting
it, and well before the attack.

 > Lives can and have been lost by the inability to read the bad guys' crypto.

   Many lives were lost in WWII due to an unwillingness to believe
what the crypto intercepts said.  (The best example was when Beedle
Smith went to Field Marshall Montgomery with information that there
were two Panzer divisions bivouaced near Remagen.) In other cases
timeliness advantages were lost to politics of one sort or another.
The only possible case where the failure was in timely decryption may
be the bombing of Coventry.  But in that case the target was known
through other sources, both information from a captured pilot and
interception of the beams which were used to direct the bombers.  The
only thing that crypto didn't reveal in time was the name of the
target city.

    History is important.  But what it tells us is that attempts to
stick your head in the sand are wrong.  Let's set the wayback machine
for 1937 and pretend that the Germans and the Japanese decide that the
disadvantages of a single hardware cryptography system outweigh the
perceived advantages.  The evidence from the (mercifully short)
periods when we were not reading the German and Japanese messages, and
when the Germans were reading the British Naval code used to
coordinate convoys, indicate that the Allies would not have won WWII.

     Of course, cryptography was not the only factor which decided
battles in WWII, but Kursk may have been the only major battle where
the role of intelligence, including cryptography, was not decisive.
If you disagree with this statement, make a list of the top twenty
battles of WWII, cross out battles you know were won by full use of
cryptography, like Midway, and those lost (or not won) by ignoring
cryptographic information, then take it to sci.military or email if
there is something other than Kursk remaining.  Most people who have
studied the role of cryptography, traffic analysis, and intelligence
in WWII casually know of the failures.  It takes a lot more attention
to detail to find the many, many successes--like repositioning the air
drops on D-day, or Patton slowing his advance to respond to a German
counterattack from the flank.

    This may sound like I am arguing David's side.  I'm not.  The
mistake was to trust ANYTHING to insecure crypto.  We are here because
the US didn't make it in the thirties and forties.  You might argue
that the holes in Cripple are not subject to an attack like that on
PURPLE, but they are certainly subject to the "practical cryptography"
favored by the British.  (This is not a slight on British
cryptographers.  Even when considered "broken" each new Enigma key,
and there were many new keys daily, required solutions, as for that
matter did PURPLE.  It is just that the British, in particular the
British Admiralty, were very willing to resort to military action or
espionage to acquire cryptographic machines, Enigma rotors, and
codebooks.)

     In WWI, the American field ciphers worked very well.  The plan
went like this.  There was always on hand a new set of codebooks that
could be delivered to the front in hours.  Each code book had, on the
cover, the code for code book lost, either 2222 or DAM, or the like.
Alternate code books used numeric and alphabetic groups, and code
clerks were threatened with all sorts of diverse dire dooms if they
retransmitted a message using both codes. "The only people who won't
have both code books handy are the Bosch."  The codes were switched
every three weeks or when a code book was reported lost (see above).
It never got to three weeks.  Are you going to even consider switching
Cripple phones every three weeks?

    To sum up.  In the thirties, hardware cryptography was seen as a
major advance by those who were unaware of its flaws.  These flaws are
not particularly cryptographic.  Instead they are logistical and
financial.  Switching systems because you have a major event planned
is a nice idea, and the Japanese Navy switched codes early for Pearl
Harbor.  But when switching means junking lots of hardware--or worse
yet operating old and new systems it parallel, it doesn't get done.
So the Japanese diplomats, including the Japanese Emabassy in Berlin,
didn't switch during the war.  Today there is NO excuse for favoring
hardware cryptography.  NONE.  And a system where you can't even
change the keys because they are hard wired?  Arrrgh!



--

					Robert I. Eachus

with Standard_Disclaimer;
use  Standard_Disclaimer;
function Message (Text: in Clever_Ideas) return Better_Ideas is...
