Newsgroups: sci.crypt,nlnet.cryptografie,talk.politics.crypto
Path: msuinfo!agate!overload.lbl.gov!dog.ee.lbl.gov!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!usc!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!uknet!EU.net!sun4nl!rna-nl!gerben
From: gerben@rna.indiv.nluug.nl (Gerben Wierda)
Subject: NOT YET. Was: Dutch Gov't Proposes Outlawing Crypto
Message-ID: <1994Apr11.183400.2520@rna.indiv.nluug.nl>
Sender: gerben@rna.indiv.nluug.nl (Gerben Wierda)
Organization: G.R.O.S.S.
References: <jktaberCo209M.8w0@netcom.com>
Date: Mon, 11 Apr 1994 18:34:00 GMT
Lines: 58
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:25855 talk.politics.crypto:4525

In article <jktaberCo209M.8w0@netcom.com> jktaber@netcom.com (John K.  
Taber) writes:
> There's a new usegroup I surfed, nlnet.cryptografie.  In it are posts
> concerning an attempt of the Dutch legislature to sneak in a law  
outlawing
> free use of crypto in the Netherlands.  In effect crypto would be  
illegal
> without registering one's keys with the authorities.  A newspaper there,
> the Vokskrant has raised the alarm.

Before everybody starts running around, the situation calls for alert but  
nothing has been settled yet. 

The paper mentioned had an article that was based on a discussion on  
nlnet.misc where people were suggesting that the government would try to  
ban cryptography quickly before the next elections (May 3rd). This is not  
the case. For everybody interested I will give a detailed account of the  
current situation (as far as I have been able to find out).

	As a result of changes to the law on telecommunication (regarding  
mobile phones) the discussion within the department of transport  
(responsible for telecom policies) was started about the protection of the  
(currently unprotected) mobile phone connections. This lead to some  
involvement for other departments including the justice department. The  
draft that was prepared by the DoT met much resistance (mainly by other  
departments) and has been called back. Note: it is a copy of this draft  
that is causing the concern at this moment, since it outlawed cryptografy,  
probably with a licensing scheme. 
	So currently there is no draft. A new draft is now prepared by the  
justice department.

	This draft is currently in the drafting stage. This stage is not  
public. After the drafting stage, the draft will be made public (mid 1994)  
and advice of various organisations will be asked for.

	After the advisory stage the work will become confidential once  
more. The Dutch Council of State will give advice. Then, the justice  
department will make a final draft for law and this will be submitted to  
the parliament. We are probably talking late 1994, early 1995 here.

	Generally the final proposal has nothing in common with the first.  
While this might be so, I still expect the justice department to come up  
with a sort of licensing scheme. But at this stage everything is unclear.

	We have to stay alert, but for the moment however the panic is for  
something that isn't even there. The real discussion will start in the  
middle of the summer.

> 
> Egads!  The influence of the NSA!

Hardly. I think every justice organisation is becoming aware of the issue.  
You don't need the NSA for that.

-- 
gerben@rna.indiv.nluug.nl (Gerben Wierda) NEXTSTEP RD242
"If you don't know where you're going, any road will take you there"
Paraphrased in Alice in Wonderland, originally from the Talmud.
