Path: msuinfo!agate!ucbvax!dog.ee.lbl.gov!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!usc!rand.org!jim
From: jim@rand.org (Jim Gillogly)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Reuse of one time pads. Risks? Methods?
Message-ID: <2occ3g$9c7@rand.org>
Date: 11 Apr 94 20:31:44 GMT
References: <1994Apr11.193925.3041@rna.indiv.nluug.nl>
Organization: Banzai Institute
Lines: 38
NNTP-Posting-Host: mycroft.rand.org

In article <1994Apr11.193925.3041@rna.indiv.nluug.nl>,
Gerben Wierda <gerben@rna.indiv.nluug.nl> wrote:
>Suppose I have a one time pad encryption system. My pad is 4GB. I'd like to  
>know if there are reasonable schems for reusing the pad. 

As soon as you re-use any of it, you're in a state of sin.  The probability
of a cryptanalyst breaking it has gone from bugger-all to something higher.

>A straight reuse leads to a period of 32Gbit. But if once in a while I do a new  
>synch between both sides at some random new position, I have the feeling that  
>breaking such a pad could be very difficult.

That would be (drum roll please) the kappa test.  If you have a bunch of
intercepts from somebody in one system, you want to find out where they
used overlapping keys.  This was an important question in WW2 for machine
ciphers with a long period, but for which occasionally they would see
overlaps.  You slide each pair of ciphers against each other, and count
the number of matches at each position.  If you have them aligned right,
the proportion of matches will take a sudden jump, from about 0.035 to
0.066, if memory serves, for 26-letter English and no spaces -- I don't
have my books lying around here, but it would be higher with spaces.  It
depends on the roughness of the distribution of the underlying plaintext:
there'll be a higher probability of an 'E' in both plaintexts lining up,
and if they're encrypted with the same key, it'll match in the ciphertext.

It's like the index of coincidence, except that you just have two "periods"
that you're trying to compare.  Same principle, though.

>I was wondering if people can shed some light on this issue. How do I calculate  
>the strength/weakness of such a system?

Sure.  Don't do it.  If you can afford to hand her a 4GB pad, you can
afford another one when you run out.  Solomon Kullback's book in the
Aegean Park Press series on cryptography goes into the math behind this
stuff.
-- 
	Jim Gillogly
	Mersday, 20 Astron S.R. 1994, 20:31
