Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!wupost!udel!news2.sprintlink.net!news.sprintlink.net!news.clark.net!hal
From: hal@clark.net (hal)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Clipper as a replacement for cleartext
Date: 12 Apr 1994 13:38:33 GMT
Organization: Clark Internet Services, Inc., Ellicott City, MD USA
Lines: 33
Message-ID: <2oe88p$khq@clarknet.clark.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: clark.net
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]


 Here is one argument that I've heard during some meeting with clipper
 advocates. I'll try to bound the conditions to prevent misinterpretation.

 Clipper is useful. It will provide a service. That service will be 
 limited to:

    (1) A replacement for DES for government users.
    (2) A replacement for cleartext.
    (3) Other systems will not be prohibited.

 Consider the second point: What is your reaction to this point?
 As we move into the future more and more things are becoming digital.
 These things are also using various communications media that can be
 easily monitored. Not by government (although government would be able to)
 but by neighbors listening into you cordless phones (I have such neighbors)
 the scanner crowd listening to cellular telephone conversations, even the
 wireless baby monitor ( I have heard one of these things a few miles away
 and the parents were talking about some pretty personal stuff.)

 More and more of these kinds of applications are with us every day. Most do
 not require triple DES with a PKS key exchange. Instead, some form of
 link encryption with some simple key management would give me a lot of
 privacy against the threat: nosy neighbors, private detectives, the
 scanner crowd and hackers. I call this the cleartext replacement
 argument. 

 What it will not do: I would not trust my secret or confidential information
 to such a simple link system. Rather, I'd go end-to-end with IDEA and
 a PKS key exchange ( sound familar?). But for day-to-day stuff replacing
 cleartext with some link encryption would be an advance in privacy.

 Reaction?
