Path: msuinfo!agate!darkstar.UCSC.EDU!news.hal.COM!decwrl!lambda.msfc.nasa.gov!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!zip.eecs.umich.edu!panix!MathWorks.Com!news.cic.net!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!csn!news.sinet.slb.com!dcd
From: dcd@se.houston.geoquest.slb.com (Dan Day)
Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.cpsr.talk,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Access to keys wasRe: "Open Sesame"--MacNeil-Lehrer Report on Clipper
Date: 12 Apr 1994 18:57:14 GMT
Organization: GeoQuest System, Inc. Houston
Lines: 42
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <2oequa$6i2@sndsu1.sinet.slb.com>
References: <strnlghtCo2H21.AGC@netcom.com> <2obvuj$9mj@charm.magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu> <strnlghtCo4065.ED3@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: mudd.se.houston.geoquest.slb.com
Xref: msuinfo talk.politics.crypto:4601 comp.org.cpsr.talk:144 comp.org.eff.talk:32017 alt.privacy.clipper:3924 sci.crypt:25917

In article <strnlghtCo4065.ED3@netcom.com> david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight) writes:
>
>If I
>read it correctly it seems to suggest the decryption boxes will be widely
>distributed. I can't believe they'd do that.

I don't know about the decryption boxes, but it's obvious from the
text that local law enforcement officers are going to have traffic
monitors which are Clipper compatible.  If they didn't they wouldn't
be able to read and decode the LEF data block, which they need to
do if they're going to be able to submit the chip's ID number to
the feds when they request the keys.  I envision a wire-tap like
device which watches for LEF data blocks and prints out the ID
numbers of the chips that are being used to communicate on that line.

This raises a few interesting points all by itself.  First, it means
that the law enforcement officers have to do a wiretap (i.e. eavesdrop
on communications) prior to even beginning the process of ordering
the escrow keys.  If there is any lag time in acquiring escrow
keys (and it's not likely to be instantaneous), one wonders if they're
going to be more likely to tap into a line without authorization as a
"fishing expedition", just so that they'll have the ID codes on hand and
can expedite the process of ordering the keys if necessary.  I can see them
justifying this (if they're even challenged) on the grounds that it wasn't
*really* a wiretap, since they didn't expect to be able to encounter
any plaintext.  (For that matter, scanning a line for LEF blocks may well
not even require an authorization.  In any case, I'd be surprised if all
law enforcement officers would have the discipline to acquire a wiretap
authorization, then then send a copy off to the feds, wait until the keys
come back, and only then begin the listening -- especially if they're worried
that they might miss something critical to their investigation if they wait.
Better to start that scanning for the LEF fields right away, even
without a warrant, and if it turns out the parties aren't using
encryption at all, well, they're not going to forget what they
overhear.

Second, the "LEF decoders" are going to be great traffic analyzers,
and traffic analysis (who calls who, and when) is a huge invasion
of privacy all by itself.  And apparently the LEF decoders are
going to be widely available.  Even if you trust every single law
enforcement officers, how many of these boxes do you think are going
to end up in the wrong hands?
