Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!emory!news-feed-2.peachnet.edu!concert!ashe.cs.unc.edu!news_server.cs.unc.edu!greeneg
From: greeneg@rachmaninov.cs.unc.edu (George Greene)
Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.cpsr.talk,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Subject: Re: "Open Sesame"--MacNeil-Lehrer Report on Clipper
Date: 13 Apr 1994 20:00:21 GMT
Organization: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Lines: 76
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <GREENEG.94Apr13160021@rachmaninov.cs.unc.edu>
References: <strnlghtCo17v8.BE3@netcom.com> <abellCo22E6.Gv1@netcom.com>
	<strnlghtCo2GM3.9E8@netcom.com> <abellCo2KwJ.6MK@netcom.com>
	<strnlghtCo2Lz5.3MI@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: rachmaninov.cs.unc.edu
In-reply-to: strnlght@netcom.com's message of Mon, 11 Apr 1994 01:11:28 GMT
Xref: msuinfo talk.politics.crypto:4666 comp.org.cpsr.talk:171 comp.org.eff.talk:32143 alt.privacy.clipper:3954 sci.crypt:25957

   >***      IF YOU WISH TO RETAIN COPYRIGHT, DON'T SEND IT       ***

In article <strnlghtCo2Lz5.3MI@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:
 :   Someone tried posting an announcement before. To announce you plan to
 :   violate a law does not get you off, nor does it make you honorable. Instead
 :   it makes you a hoodlum and sociopath. 

I almost disagree.
If the law is bullshit, then it makes you a patriot.
The reason I don't completely disagree with your
characterization is that between the two of us, we may have
just succeeded in proving (despite the contradiction between
the connotations) that it is (denotatively) possible to be
a hoodlum, a sociopath, and a patriot, all at the same time.
Martin Luther King and all the people who marched with him
broke a lot of laws and went to a lot of jails for it.
That may have made them sociopaths and hoodlums, but it
also made them heroes.

There is a long tradition of civil disobedience in this
country, and an even stronger one within this subculture.
How you could even say such a thing, in THIS medium of all
places, I can hardly imagine!

 :  the last guy who tried this with
 :  respect to people's e-mail got a big fat razzberry here from several reders.
 :  Is that what you want.

I want people to be reasonable.

I want people to be truthful.

I want people to post some credible scenarios where
it is vitally important that the information be hidden.
I want them to explain why the goals achieved by hiding the
information wouldn't be better achieved by punishing/deterring
potential abusers of the information (as opposed to hiding
the information).


 :   Posting a no trespassing sign is proper because it is the 
 :   trespasser who is violating the law. 

People of color used to routinely get shot to death in Texas on
the pretext that they were violating trespassing laws.  The law
is a ass, a idiot (sometimes); that is the only reason this discussion
is even HAPPENING!  For you to post anything that attempts to
justify a position "just because the law says so" in THIS nation,
in THIS forum, is counter-productive almost to the point of 
preposterousness.  We are arguing about what the law OUGHT to
say, NOT what it DOES say.

 : Posting a "I don't respect copyrights in people's e-mail"
 : sign is a confession of lawlessness on the part of the poster. 

It's an assertion of disagreement with [your interpretation of] the
law.  Nobody is re-posting this for profit, anyway.  Getting into non-
disclosure agreements is usually harder than you are trying to make it
sound.

 : If, in the face of such a sign, someone sends you e-mail 
 : anyway and you post it, it is you who are exposed to copyright
 : violation charges, and your sign does not in any way mitigate your 
 : violation.

Legally, perhaps.
Pragmatically, there is not a single DA in the US that would bother
with it.  Unless you could prove civil damages, the case would be
irrelevant, regardless of your legal grounding.  If you asked a DA
to prosecute somebody for THAT, do you know what his response would be?

 :   As Joan Rivers is fond of saying, "Oh, grow up."
 :   David

Oh; I see that you do.

