Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!emory!news-feed-2.peachnet.edu!concert!ashe.cs.unc.edu!news_server.cs.unc.edu!greeneg
From: greeneg@rachmaninov.cs.unc.edu (George Greene)
Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.cpsr.talk,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt,talk.politics.theory,alt.politics.usa.constitution
Subject: Re: "Open Sesame"--MacNeil-Lehrer Report on Clipper
Date: 13 Apr 1994 19:25:31 GMT
Organization: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Lines: 70
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <GREENEG.94Apr13152532@rachmaninov.cs.unc.edu>
References: <2o8b9u$5v7@news.acns.nwu.edu> <abellCo22yr.I02@netcom.com>
	<strnlghtCo2Etu.JFF@netcom.com> <abellCo2HyH.124@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: rachmaninov.cs.unc.edu
In-reply-to: abell@netcom.com's message of Sun, 10 Apr 1994 23:44:40 GMT
Xref: msuinfo talk.politics.crypto:4660 comp.org.cpsr.talk:166 comp.org.eff.talk:32135 alt.privacy.clipper:3949 sci.crypt:25950 talk.politics.theory:30740 alt.politics.usa.constitution:7146

In article <abellCo2HyH.124@netcom.com> abell@netcom.com (Steven T. Abell) writes:
 :   If you'll look at the Declaration of Independence, you'll see that it's
 :   a preemption by the people of the existing government. The Bill of Rights
 :   is the same thing. There has to be a means of preempting a government that's
 :   out of control. 

There is.  It's called a revolution.
It is at all times, necessarily, an EXTRA-governmental act.
NO government EVER made inherent provisions for limiting itself in
this "stop me before I kill again" way.  The only solution to a government
that is out of control, like a gun that is out of control, is A BIGGER
GOVERNMENT (or a bigger gun).  When a local government is out of control,
the only  thing that can put it back  in is a state government.  When a state
government is out of control, the only thing that can put it back in
is the Federal government.  When the federal government is out of control,
even the Supreme Court is QUITE impotent.  You either live with it
or commit treason.

 : A government that moves to make itself non-preemptible is inherently 
 : dangerous, regardless of the benevolence and good intentions of
 :   those who are running it. 

All governments have already made this move.
They always will.  It is pointless to argue.
The relevant fact is that most governments have sense
enough to know that no matter how strongly they make this
move, they will probably FAIL to become non-preemptible.
That never stops them from trying.  And there is no point
in complaining.  Eventually, talk is not only cheap, it
is irrelevant.  Eventually, you have to let your gun
do the talking.

 : The First Amendment is the first line of defense;
 :   the Second Amendment is the last. The First Amendment is ailing these
 :   days (to say nothing of what's happening to the Second), what with various
 :   governmutants claiming that digital data transmission is neither speech nor
 :   press. Widespread strong crypto is an important part of the immune system
 :   of the body politic. It's now part of what closes the control loop between
 :   the government and the governed. Assumptions that the government will control
 :   itself are incredibly naive. 

Right now, the government is controlled by the few who can (financially)
afford to control it.  In the process of doing this, they pretty well control
the rest of us.  The 2nd amendment is pretty irrelevant to all of this.
The kind of arms needed to fight the US army if it ever wanted to do
anything local are not the kind that most people know how to use.
Do you really think YOU can do better than David Koresh?  Do you think
ANYBODY can?

 :   Mr. Clinton has said that I don't have a right to strong crypto.
 :   He is mistaken.

This is too mixed up with the market.

Anybody who has a right to anything has it 
irrespective of whether they can AFFORD it.
I have a RIGHT to legal representation if I am
in a trial; whether I can afford a lawyer is 
irrelevant.  If I had a right to strong crypto,
I wouldn't have to buy it.  As long as you are
saying that only the people who can afford strong
crypto get to have it, you are just inviting the
rich to continue conspiring against the rest of us.

Demanding strong crypto simply begs the question,
"What are you trying to hide? and why would you want to??"
The right to privacy is very overblown.  People do not
need a right to privacy.  They need a government that
is serious about outlawing discrimination on the basis
of the information that is found out after privacy is gone.
