Path: msuinfo!agate!deep.rsoft.bc.ca!mindlink.bc.ca!a8122
From: Kerry_Pearson@mindlink.bc.ca (Kerry Pearson)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Stego & Cypherella (bOING bOING #12)
Date: 13 Apr 94 21:52:22 GMT
Organization: MIND LINK! - British Columbia, Canada
Lines: 64
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <42705@mindlink.bc.ca>
NNTP-Posting-Host: mindlink.bc.ca

Stego & Cypherella

A Cypherpunk Goddess Presents Us With Digital Fruit From Her Tree of
Knowledge
by Sandy Sandfort

bOING bOING #12

  Cypherella is an ace software developer who has unleashed a subversive
program called Stego, a different kind of encryption software that works
because snoops can't even tell that you are using encryption software.
  How's it work? Let's say Slick Willie wants to hide his voluminous Little
Black Book where no one can find it. If he puts it in an encrypted file on
his White House personal computer, anybody who looks at the files on his
hard disk can tell that he is trying to hide something, and by today's
unfortunate "if you have something to hide, you must be guilty" standards
he'd catch hell from the press. Enter Stego.
  The Stego program uses steganography, a method of disguising messages
within other media. What that means, in practical terms (so Prez can
understand) is that he can camouflage his secret Little Black Book inside
something innocuous: Hillary's Vogue pictures scanned into a Mac PICT file
would do nicely.
    Every picture stored on a computer is made up of pixels (picture
elements).
Depending on how many shades of gray or hues of color you want to have, a
pixel can be expressed using 8. 16, 32 or even more bits. If the least
siqnificant bit is changed. the shade of the pixel is altered only
one-256th, one-65,OOOth or even less. No human eye could tell the
difference.
   What Stego does, is hijack the least significant bit in each pixel of a
picture. It uses that bit to store one bit of a secret message or file.
Because digitized pictures have lots of pixels, it's possible to store lots
of data in a single picture.
   But what if Hillary also has a copy of Stego? (She might want to hide
her Little Black Book too, you know.) Bill could get busted. And then he'd
really catch hell.
Bill should first use a standard encryption program (like Phil Zimmermann's
"Pretty Good Privacy") to encrypt his LBB before he Stegos the PICT file.
   Pretty cool, huh? Bob Packwood would've paid thousands for it. But
because Cypherella wants you to have Stego, she is offering it as
shareware. You get it for free. If you like it, you can send her a
registration fee of $15. For that you'll get the latest updates plus
special features and other valuable goodies.

   Software this great could only come from a wicked cool cypherpunk
goddess
like Cypherella. Also known as Romana Machado (and sometimes "Mistress"
Romana, Katrina, or just plain Kate), she's an avid reader of science
fiction. and has tried everything from ballet to Trekkie fandom; from drug
experimentation to medical research; from singing in baroque choral groups
to posing for Playboy (November 1985). When she's not writing cunning
encryption programs, she keeps herself busy as a software consultant, a
model, and sometime movie extra. She's designed and and made black leather
wrist braces to prevent or alleviate carpal tunnel syndrom
     It's only natural that she would eventually hook up with the
Cypherpunks. This self-mockingly-named group vigorously promotes the use of
strong encryption to preserve personal privacy and freedom. It includes
some real hotshots in mathematics, cryptography and computer science. Yet
only a dozen or so of the several hundred Cypherpunks have actually worked
on cryptographic projects. Of those, only Cypherella's Stego and a small
handful of others have actually been finished.
   Stego was written for the Macintosh. PC and other versions may soon be
available. To get your copy of Stego. you can FTP it from:
sumex-aim.stanford.edu, in the info-mac/Recent directory as stego-l0a2.hqx
