Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!cyber2.cyberstore.ca!nwnexus!chinook!ken
From: ken@chinook.halcyon.com (Ken Pizzini)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Enigma variations
Date: 17 Apr 1994 19:01:31 GMT
Organization: Northwest Nexus Inc.
Lines: 60
Message-ID: <2os12b$gor@nwfocus.wa.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: chinook.halcyon.com
Summary: Why weren't German u-boat messages more secure?
Keywords: enigma WWII u-boat cryptology

Hey, all you crypto-history buffs, here's a question for you...

I've just finished reading Kahn's book about the German navy's
use of Enigma during WWII, and was struck by what, to me, seems
an obvious way to strengthen their usage.  I realize that I
have the benefit of half a century more work into cryptographic
research, and in particular to information theory, but I fail
to see why my variation would not have occurred to the Deinst.

One possibility is that it did occur to them, but the logistics
are worse than my back-of-the-envelope estimates suggest.
Another is that they didn't feel the need for the extra work.
But my sense from Kahn's book is that the Navy (unlike the
other branches) took cryptographic security seriously and would
have made such an effort.

Also, my technique is best suited to the U-boat operations,
where they were already using Berlin as a clearinghouse for all
communications.  I can see that other divisions may have found
this requirement untenable.

My thought was this:  instead of a daily sheet of wheel settings
to be used by the whole fleet, to issue _each vessel_ its own
sheet of random settings to be used in communications with
Berlin.  Or, for logistical purposes, perhaps two sets -- one
inbound, and one outbound.  Each wheel setting would be used
only once, and crossed off the list by the cipher clerk as it
was used to avoid repeating it.  (I've thought about this quite
a bit looking for flaws, and have many more operational details
if there is interest; they don't seem relevant to my main
question.  To me, all seem within the bounds of what was
already being done.)

Now this would restrict all communication to just between the
individual U-boats and Berlin, and would not allow the
"friendly eavesdropping" that took place, but I did not get the
sense that the eavesdropping was a critical value, and a
separate "tactical" code could be used in those situations
where the delay in communications via Berlin would be
problematical.

The major advantage of this approach is that "practical
cryptanalysis" is rendered useless.  Now the Germans never took
what hints they had that such was taking place, but the Navy
did show its concern with the security of the keys many times
in the course of the war.

If this were done, it seems that the Allies would have even
less success with the Naval Enigma than they did.  The bombes
would only be able to break isolated messages, and reveal the
rotor selection of the day, but would not be able to reveal any
daily "indicator key", as this latter would in effect be a
per-message indicator under a one-time pad.


So, where are the flaws in my understanding?  Or did the Germans
just somehow fail to think of this?


		--Ken Pizzini
