Path: msuinfo!agate!overload.lbl.gov!dog.ee.lbl.gov!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!usc!howland.reston.ans.net!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!audi.ncsa.uiuc.edu!mitchell
From: David Mitchell <mitchell@ncsa.uiuc.edu>
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: RSAREF and PGP, why not?
Date: 18 Apr 1994 06:08:31 GMT
Organization: #include <std.disclaimer>
Lines: 61
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2ot84v$a4d@vixen.cso.uiuc.edu>
References: <droberts.766445186@chip.cs.uiuc.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: audi.ncsa.uiuc.edu
X-UserAgent: Version 1.1.3
X-XXMessage-ID: <A9D78E015A060611@audi.ncsa.uiuc.edu>
X-XXDate: Mon, 18 Apr 94 01:08:17 GMT

In article <droberts.766445186@chip.cs.uiuc.edu> ,
droberts@chip.cs.uiuc.edu writes:
> Sorry if this has been asked before, but it seems to me after browsing
the
> code for PGP and RSAREF, that it wouldn't be too difficult to use
RSAREF to
> implement PGP, rendering it legal. So could someone please explain why
this
> hasn't been done yet or what the difficulty is that I haven't seen.
Thanx in
> advance.

The first problem is that RSAREF does not provide a suitable interface
for PGP.  It does not provide access to the RSA primatives.  Some
re-writing of the RSAREF library would be necessary.  But, in
reading the RSAREF license, it seems to me that this could be
done.

First, the person doing the modifications would need to get permission
in writing from RSA.  This is stated in Section 2.d:

"d.   Prior permission from RSA in writing is required for any
        modifications that access the Program through ways other
        than the published Program interface or for modifications
        to the Program interface.  RSA will grant all reasonable
        requests for permission to make such modification."

Being reasonable, RSA should grant permission to access the RSA
primitives.  After all, they WANT people to use RSA.

Second, code the modifications.  They should be fairly minimal,
and should be implemented as a separate patch file.

Third, a version of the PGP code should be put together which includes
the hooks for RSA, and the patch file, but NOT RSAREF.

Fourth, the new version of PGP must be e-mailed to RSA pursuant
to section 1.c of the license:

"c.  to modify the Program in any manner for porting of performance
     improvement purposes (subject to Section 2) or to incorporate the
     Program into other computer programs for your own personal or
     internal use, provided that you provide RSA with a copy of any such
     modification of Application Program by electronic mail, and grant
     RSA a perpetual, royalty-free license to use and distribute such
     modifications and Application Programs on the terms set forth in
     this Agreement."

Finally, the PGP code could be distributed with absolutely no concern
for patent infrigement, as the patent holders of IDEA (Ascom Tech AG,
if I remember correctly)  have already given permission for
non-commercial use.  There is no RSA code, so PKP will have no valid
complaint.  Users would then only have to obtain RSAREF from RSA,
and go ahead with a build.  RSA may try and require people to get
written permission to use the patch file on RSAREF, but having granted
permission previously in writing, and given the terms of the license, they
would pretty much have to give everyone permission.

Well, what do you all think?  Is this workable?

-David Mitchell
