Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!nntp.cs.ubc.ca!cyber2.cyberstore.ca!nwnexus!seanews!luke
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Boston tea party (1994 style)
From: luke@seanews.akita.com (James Luther Toole)
Message-ID: <PXRykc1w165w@seanews.akita.com>
Date: Sun, 17 Apr 94 23:01:48 PDT
Organization: SEANEWS - Seattle Public Access News + Mail
Lines: 33

hi everybody,
        As most of you folks are already eware, our rights as Americans, 
are at present being chipped away, due to our poor choice regarding 
president Bill Clinton. President Clinton has brought us to the piont 
where American citizens, who lawfully carry firearms, will soon be 
felons, if they choose not to turn in their weapons at the whim of our 
government. I was always told that he (president Clinton) was supposed to 
working for "We The People of the United States." Similarly, president 
Clinton, has proposed, and effectively orchestrated plans to control all 
data/analog information via the NSA clipper chip. The idea that this new 
hardware will stop any computer criminals from affecting further crimes 
is nothing short or rediculous, as criminals won't buy devices that have 
the clipper chip in them. This leaves a nasty taste in my mouth, as it 
clearly leads to the conclusion that our president isn't concerned with 
criminal activity as much as he is about further being in control of law 
abiding citizens that aren't in the know about the clipper chip.
        I believe now, more than ever that we aren't being represented by 
our national leadership. At one time in America, they tossed large 
amounts of English tea in revolt of Englands' taxation, and yet in 1994, 
our legally elected president, is guilty of not representing us. I 
propose that we all.... as a collective group, deny president Clinton 
access to our Internet. It belongs to us all, and if he gets his filthy 
mits into it, then Bill will be in control all the more, and as for the 
devices containing the clipper chips, make them known to the public at 
large, and by God picket the damn things, were Americans, we deserve the 
privacy, and rights that many men, and women died, and fought for. If we 
don't then their deaths will be all in vain. Big Brither Bill won't win 
this one, we won't let him.
James

-- 
[] SEANEWS [] Seattle Public Access Usenet News + Mail [] +1 206 614 0048 []
luke@seanews.akita.com
