Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!bounce-back
From: jan@bagend.atl.ga.us (Jan Isley)
Newsgroups: news.announce.newgroups,news.groups,comp.arch,comp.dsp,comp.lsi,comp.org.ieee,sci.crypt,sci.electronics,sci.math
Subject: CFV: comp.arch.arithmetic
Followup-To: poster
Date: 18 Apr 1994 16:35:49 -0400
Organization: Usenet Volunteer Votetakers
Lines: 90
Sender: tale@uunet.uu.net
Approved: tale@uunet.uu.net
Expires: 10 May 1994 00:00:00 GMT
Message-ID: <comp.arch.arithmetic-CFV1@uunet.uu.net>
References: <comp.arch.arithmetic-RFD1@uunet.uu.net>
Reply-To: usenet-votes@mathcs.emory.edu (Jan Isley)
NNTP-Posting-Host: rodan.uu.net
Xref: msuinfo news.announce.newgroups:4753 news.groups:101189 comp.arch:49095 comp.dsp:10567 comp.lsi:3885 comp.org.ieee:2660 sci.crypt:26147 sci.electronics:84374 sci.math:69704

                    FIRST CALL FOR VOTES (of 2)
              unmoderated group comp.arch.arithmetic

Newsgroups line: 
comp.arch.arithmetic	Implementing arithmetic on computers/digital systems.

Votes must be received by 9 May 1994, 23:59:59 GMT.

Please read this entire post before replying.

This vote is being conducted by a neutral third party.  Please direct
all questions about the vote to Jan Isley <jan@bagend.atl.ga.us>.

Please direct all questions regarding the proposed new group to the
proponent, Scott Johnson <johnsos@ece.orst.edu>.

The vote taker will mail this CFV to the numeric-interest@validgh.com
mailing list after the official CFV appears in news.announce.newgroups.

CHARTER

comp.arch.arithmetic will be a forum for the discussion of implementing 
arithmetic functions in digital computers (and other digital systems).
There are many other newsgroups which share a peripheral interest with
this topic, but none which deals precisely with the topic of implementing
arithmetic (and logical) functions on digital systems.  Thus, I feel that
this newsgroup would fill a void, as computer arithmetic is an important
field of study.

comp.arch.arithmetic will deal with the topic of computer arithmetic at
several different levels, from the circuit level (how to build a faster
multiplier, for example) to the algorithmic level.  Both hardware and
software implementations of arithmetic will be discussed.  Any problem
involving arithmetic or logical calculations is fair game for discussion,
whether it be ALU design, digital signal processing, cryptography,
minimization of logic equations, or anything else.  This newsgroup is
also for the discussion of various protocols and standards relating to
computer arithmetic, such as IEEE Standard 754.  In short, any topic
relevant to computer arithmetic/logic is acceptable in this newsgroup.

comp.arch.arithmetic is intended to serve all of those with an interest in 
computer arithmetic, from undergraduates wondering what two's complement 
numbers are, to seasoned researchers discussing the latest developments of
the field.  No one should be made to feel unwelcome, simply due to a lack
of experience or knowledge of the topics covered.  Thus, it is intended
that a FAQ be eventually prepared, which answers the more common questions
(as well as providing numerous references and citations to the literature.)
The FAQ is not intended to be a comprehensive guide, but a quick reference.

Generally, any post relating to computer arithmetic or logic is considered 
acceptable.  Posts which are not relevant to the topic at hand, or posts 
which are excessively hostile, are considered unacceptable.  Constructive 
criticism of another's ideas/work are OK, flames are not.  As comp.arch.
arithmetic is an UNMODERATED newsgroup, readers are expected to exercise
their own good judgment when posting.  It is anticipated that the vast
majority of posters will be professional in their behavior, so moderation
is not necessary.

VOTING INSTRUCTIONS

Your vote will be counted by a program.  Please use the template below
and follow the instructions *exactly*.

Send mail to usenet-votes@mathcs.emory.edu containing these three
lines in the body (not the header!):

   ballot-caa
   My name is XXX
   I vote ___ on comp.arch.arithmetic

Replace XXX with your name (not your email address!).
Replace ___ with either YES, NO, or ABSTAIN.

Use the template *exactly* and delete all other text from this post.
If you get creative with spaces or case, if you mispell the group
name, etc... your vote may be rejected by the vote counting program.

You should receive a personal acknowledgment by email within a few days.
It is your responsibility to make sure your vote is registered correctly.

ONE VOTE PER PERSON, no more than one person per account.  Voting from
multiple accounts may result in all of your votes being rejected.  All
voter's addresses and votes will be published in the final results list.

Do NOT distribute mutated voting instructions.  This can cause serious
problems for the voters who use them and for me as vote taker.  If you
are in any doubt, please contact me - I'll be very happy to advise you.
-- 
Jan Isley <jan@bagend.atl.ga.us>
votes-to: <usenet-votes@mathcs.emory.edu>
