Newsgroups: sci.physics,sci.skeptic,sci.crypt,sci.nonlinear
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!sarfatti
From: sarfatti@netcom.com (Jack Sarfatti)
Subject: Asher Peres
Message-ID: <sarfattiCoHuGo.978@netcom.com>
Followup-To: sci.physics
Keywords: quantum cryptography, teleportation
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
Date: Tue, 19 Apr 1994 06:38:47 GMT
Lines: 145
Xref: msuinfo sci.physics:79566 sci.skeptic:69748 sci.crypt:26162 sci.nonlinear:1025

Asher Peres, an Israeli physicist at the Technion, has a new book, 
Quantum Theory Concepts and Methods, Kluwer 1993. The book contains 
modern developments not found in other texts like quantum cryptography 
and teleportation.  Peres makes use of the notion of "nonorthogonal 
states".  He has shown, elsewhere (Santa Fe Lectures, Vol 8), that the 
ability to distinguish non-orthogonal states would allow the use of the 
nonlocal quantum connection as a locally decodable superluminal 
communication channel which violates the classical limit of the second 
law of thermodynamics.

"Imagine that a wiley inventor claims having produced semipermeable 
partitions which unambiguously distinguish non-orthogonal states. He can 
thereby convert into work an unlimited amount of heat extracted from an 
isothermal reservoir, as shown below..." pp 275-6

For example, the quantum vacuum is an isothermal reservoir at absolute 
zero.

Start with n/2 photons with vertical polarization in one chamber and n/2 
photons with diagonal polarization in an identical chamber separated 
from the first by an impermeable membrane.

Do an isothermal expansion that doubles the volumes. This expansion 
supplies work nTlog2.  Replace the impermeable membrane by two "magic" 
semipermeable membranes. These new membranes select non-orthogonal 
states. One of them is transparent to vertically polarized photons, and 
reflects diagonally polarized photons.  The other membrane does the 
opposite. A double frictionless piston with one membrane at one end and 
the other membrane at the other end can put all n photons into the same 
chamber formerly occupied by n/2 without doing any work or transfering 
any heat (p.277).  The resulting density matrix is 

3/4  1/4
1/4  1/4

with eigenvalues 0.854 which is the probability to find a photon 
polarized at 22.5 degrees from the vertical and 0.146 which is the 
probability for the orthogonal state at 112.5 degrees.  Now replace the 
magic membranes with ordinary ones which reversibly separate these two 
orthogonal states into two chambers of equal volume.  Then do an 
isothermal compression so that both chambers have the same pressure and 
total volume as in the initial state.  This compression requires work
-nT(0.146log0.146 + 0.854log0.854) = 0.416nT < nTlog2. We now have a 
perpetual motion machine of the second kind in which an unlimited amount 
of heat is extracted from an isothermal reservoir and converted to work 
in a closed thermodynamic cycle in violation of the classical second law 
of thermodynamics. 

"Such a process violates the completeness postulate ... which asserts 
that a density matrix ... is a complete specification of all the 
physical properties of an ensemble."

Will Bohm's quantum potential interpretation with a real particle in 
addition to the density matrix violate the completeness postulate?

Nonlinear Schrodinger equation
"A similar violation of the second law arises if nonlinear modifications 
are introduced into Schrodinger's equation..." p.278

e.g. S Weinberg, Ann Phys 194 (1989) 336

"A nonlinear Schrodinger equation does not violate the superposition 
principle..."

i.e. The pure u(0) + v(0) does not unitarily evolve to u(t) + v(t) but 
to some other pure state.

"... such a nonlinear evolution violates the second law of 
thermodynamics, if the other postulates of quantum mechanics are kept 
intact. In particular, ... the equivalence of von Neumann's entropy to 
the ordinary thermodynamic entropy...." p.278

Although in second quantization the Hartree-Fock equations for many-
electron atoms are linear in Fock occupation number space, they are 
nonlinear in first quantization.  This is puzzling.

p.279 has the No-cloning theorem which asserts that it is impossible to 
make an amplifier that will duplicate a quantum system prepared in an 
arbirary state.  The proof is simple. Let A be the initial amplifier 
state and v be the state of the system to be cloned.  "x" = tensor 
product

A x v -> A'x v x v

similarly for any other state w

A x w -> A"x w x w

Take the inner product of these two processes and assume unitarity so 
that

<A|A> <v|w> = <A'|A"> <v|w> <v|w>

Suppose that |<v|w>| < 1 , and <A|A> = 1

Therefore,

1 = <A'|A"><v|w>

which is impossible because |<A'|A>| cannot exceed 1.  Therefore such an 
amplifier cannot exist. Nick Herbert needed this amplifier in his FLASH 
gedankenexperiment for using the EPR nonlocal quantum connection as a 
superluminal communication channel.

p.293 has 9-8 Quantum cryptography and teleportation.

" ... how to distribute a cryptographic key (a secret sequence of bits) 
to several observers who initially share no secret information, by using 
an insecure communication channel subject to inspection by an hostile 
eavesdropper.  If only classical means are used, this is an impossible 
task... information stored in classical form ... can be examined 
objectively without altering it in any detectable way ... while it is 
impossible to do that with quantized information encoded in unknown non-
orthogonal states... It is the elusiveness of quantum information which 
makes it ideal for transmitting secrets."

You can be sure MOSAD if not MOSAIC will use this - can NSA be far 
behind?

"Consider a source of correlated photon pairs , as in the Aspect 
experiment... Two distant observers receive these photons and test their 
polarizations along directions ... that make a 45 degree angle with each 
other ... the same pair of directions is used by both observers... The 
choice between [them]... is randomly made for each photon, by each 
observer, who keeps a record of the results of all his polarization 
tests. After they have analyzed a sufficient number of photon pairs, the 
two observers publically announce the sequence of directions... that 
were chosen by them, but not the results of the corresponding tests.  In 
about one half of the cases ... the same direction was chosen by both 
observers, and their results must then be the same, because the two 
photons are correlated.  This sequence of results, which is known only 
to the two observers, can be used as the secret key.  The results of 
polarization tests performed along different directions may be discarded 
or used for eavesdropping control ( A.K. Ekert, Phys. Rev Lett 67 (1991) 
661, C.H. Bennet et-al J Crypto 5 (1992) 3 )... Sophisticated methods of 
verification ... have been developed making quantum cryptography an 
absolutely secure method of communication." p.294

p.295 has quantum teleportation.
"It is possible to transmit two bits with a single EPR pair.  The 
inverse problem ... is the 'teleportation' of an unknown quantum state 
by means of an EPR pair and two bits of classical information."



