Message-ID: <150434Z19041994@anon.penet.fi>
Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!news.amherst.edu!news.mtholyoke.edu!uhog.mit.edu!MathWorks.Com!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!EU.net!news.eunet.fi!anon.penet.fi
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
From: an87472@anon.penet.fi (Organisation for Autonomous Self-Expression)
X-Anonymously-To: sci.crypt
Organization: Anonymous contact service
Reply-To: an87472@anon.penet.fi
Date: Sat, 16 Apr 1994 20:50:04 UTC
Subject: OASE: "What is really the greatest threat"
Lines: 56

file:THE ENCROACHING THREAT OF NEOSYNDICALISM
By "MARK BE.ABLE"
3/28/1994

	Hegel proposed a century and a half ago that the consciousness, or
spirit, of a group of individuals is the driving force for their 
world-historical progress. While many of his theories represent the worst
and the most naive extensions of Enlightenment universalist thought, his
idea of "consciousness" is nevertheless very relevant to the historical
development of many peoples today.
	In the modern age, however, we are very fragmented, and thus do not
experience "consciousness" in the real sphere. In the virtual world, 
however, it seems like we are constructing a true sense of consciousness 
once again.  Furthermore, our sense of homogenous spirit is immune to the
natural fragmentation of the modern age becuase that fragmentation and 
necessary anarchies are built in to the virtual system anyway. For example,
we have over 2000 newsgroups where almost anything can be discussed, yet
people who read news feel some sense of belonging to a higher ideal. The
sense where people experience and value this consciousness is readily 
apparent in how vehemently minor configuration details are discussed in 
such groups as alt.config and alt.control. This and other autonomously 
radiating displays of energy are Spirit manifest! Direct proof that at 
least in a virtual world a highly anarchic, fragmented state can survive 
with Consciousness intact.
	Maybe then we can finally accept Hegel's idea of consciousness in 
the modern age. Then we can see that anarchy and self-fragmentation is the
true will of the people, and is the proper place for us in world-
historical development. Then what is keeping us from achieving Spirit once 
again in the real world? What is so different between the real and the 
virtual worlds, that consciousness can be achieved in the latter arena but
not in the former? The difference lies in _who_controls_the_ideas. In the 
real world, we have let the megacorps and government choose our ideas for 
us. In the real world, our fragmentation is due to these external factors:
conglomerates and the exploding government. In the virtual world, we have 
not let this happen. Yet.
	This is why my fingers tremble at the keyboard whenever I see 
so-and-so's ideas or structure undermined by "corporate regulations". This 
is why my heart sinks into my buttocks whenever lawsuits are brought up, 
or the sovereignty of "common carriers" is threatened. And when the 
government talks of disallowing PGP and RSA encryption schemes, I cannot
bear this! Sure, you may retort. All these are necessary products of life, 
so it is natural they come up in discussions over the Net. Yet fellow 
denizens, let me remind you that there is a higher ideal once again! Fellow
comrades, let me beg of you that we must fight this encroaching threat of
neosyndicalism! Ereh, im lortnoc!


THIS HAS BEEN AN EXCERPT FROM COMMUNIQUE #11 OF THE O.A.S.E
O.A.S.E = Organisation for Autonomous Self-Expression
Any ideas welcome, any theories accepted - Live long + ProsPer@
mail the address in the headers to submit articles
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To find out more about the anon service, send mail to help@anon.penet.fi.
Due to the double-blind, any mail replies to this message will be anonymized,
and an anonymous id will be allocated automatically. You have been warned.
Please report any problems, inappropriate use etc. to admin@anon.penet.fi.
