Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!swrinde!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!bcstec!bcsaic!hovnania
From: hovnania@bcsaic.boeing.com (Paul Hovnanian)
Subject: Re: Spy Scandal could sink Clipper? 
Message-ID: <CoIr1G.MHJ@bcsaic.boeing.com>
Organization: Boeing Computer Services
References: <1994Apr11.133746.1780@roper.uwyo.edu>
Date: Tue, 19 Apr 1994 18:22:28 GMT
Lines: 54

In article <1994Apr11.133746.1780@roper.uwyo.edu>,
James Kirkpatrick <jimkirk@uwyo.edu> wrote:

[ ... ]

>Of course, if Skipjack et. al. are really as secure as the Feds claim,
>then disclosing algorithms and operating principles should not cause
>Clipper to become insecure.  It would only allow others to build similar
>high-quality systems, and starting over would not prevent this.  If there
>are in fact some back doors, which have been leaked, then I can understand
>the need to start over (or better yet, give up).

I think the NSA/CIA/FBI has a fear that goes beyond some foreign power
"cracking" the Skipjack algorithm. For the pupose of the following
argument, let's say that Skipjack is secure, even once the encryption
algorithm is known. The key escrow is needed to match a Clipper chip
serial number with its decryption key (probably an over-simplification
of the protocol, but sufficient for now).

Lets say that I'm some foreign cellular-phone manufacturer and I resent
the NSA using the USA's marketing muscle to impose their key escrow
system on the world. I can build my own encryption, but it won't work
with Clipper-equipped phones (they probably default to non-encrypted
mode, if they work at all). Skipjack has been designed to reject
encrypted text if the "Law Enforcement" fields have ben tampered with.
The only equipment I can securely communicate with is other non-USA made
models that support my algorithm.

Now, lets say I am able to implement the Skipjack algorithm in my own
chips, but I don't need to send a copy of my serial number-decryption
key pairs to the USA key escrow agency. To a Clipper phone, my equipment
looks like another Clipper phone (the chips don't check with escrow to
see if the remote serial number is legit.). I can now use my equipment
with any USA-made Cliper junk (in a semi-secure mode) and I can also use
it with anyone else in a totaly secure mode (assuming the NSA has no
back doors). I can even make my chip choose non-Skipjack encryption with
another one of my phones! Lets see who wins the foreign markets for
secure cellular now!

There was once a company, named Prince and Reed that made screws and
screw-drivers with a cross-shaped "slot" that went to a sharp point.
Another company, Phillips, copied the screw and screw-driver design,
except that the "slot" in the screw ended in a "flat" bottom short of a
point. The screw-driver tip was similarly flattened. The Phillips
screwdriver fit both Phillips and Prince and Reed screws, but the Prince
and Reed screw-driver fit only its own brand screw. Guess who is still in
business?


-- 
  while( Paul Hovnanian == hovnania@atc.boeing.com ) printf(	
  "Disclaimer: This publication is the sole property of monkey #108765 \
   and his typewriter. It does not represent the opinions of any other \
   primate, either alive or dead, or any descendents thereof.\n\n" ); 
