Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!uunet!tis.com!mjr
From: mjr@tis.com (Marcus J Ranum)
Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.cpsr.talk,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Subject: Data Communications, April 1994
Date: 22 Apr 1994 15:24:40 GMT
Organization: Trusted Information Systems, Inc.
Lines: 41
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <2p8q7o$r8l@sol.tis.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: otter.tis.com
Xref: msuinfo talk.politics.crypto:4830 comp.org.cpsr.talk:280 comp.org.eff.talk:32733 alt.privacy.clipper:4044 sci.crypt:26255

	There's an interesting little bit of rumormongering in the April
issue of Data Communications, on page 17. It reads:

"
SPY SCANDAL COULD SINK CLIPPER

	The Washingon whisper mill has it that accused double agent
Aldrich Ames may have sold information about the Clinton administration's
Clipper initiative to the Russians, a development that could doom the
controversial scheme to deliver low-cost encryption via a government
developed chip. Winn Schwartau, executive director of security
consultancy Inter Pact (Seminole, Fla.) claims he found out about the
possible breach from "a very well placed and highly reliable person
in Washington" who attended a meeting last month involving the CIA, the
FBI, and the National Security Agency. The meeting addressed the
possibility that Ames may have sold information about Clipper to
the Russians. Schwartau quotes his Deep Throat as saying, "If there's
only a one percent chance that Clipper has been compromised, the
whole thing's over, and we have to start from scratch." At press time,
the CIA would not confirm or deny that the Clipper chip had been
jeporadized by its one-time employee. "Our lawyers tell me that I should
decline to comment, since [any threat to the Clipper program] would be
part of the damage assessment going on as part of the current prosecution,"
says Dave Christian, a CIA spokesman. Since its announcement last year,
Clipper has drawn fire from critics who believe the initiative opens
the door too widespread electronic surveillance by government agencies.
"


	Observations: Interestingly, the article says nothing about
why critics feel clipper could open the door to widespread electronic
surveillance. Also, I suspect it'd be hard to Ames to actually
be able to "compromise" clipper unless there was a trapdoor in the
chip, in addition to key escrow, or unless Ames had access to the
escrow database, which seems unlikely. My take is that this is
sheer rumormongering. It's still thought-provoking. Presumably,
the algorithm is good enough that even if Ames revealed it,
the system would be secure. The escrow database, however, is another
kettle of fish.

mjr.
