Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.cpsr.talk,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt,talk.politics.theory,alt.politics.usa.constitution
Path: msuinfo!caen!zip.eecs.umich.edu!panix!MathWorks.Com!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!lovejoya
From: lovejoya@netcom.com (Alan Lovejoy)
Subject: Re: "Open Sesame"--MacNeil-Lehrer Report on Clipper
Message-ID: <lovejoyaCooHI8.MKI@netcom.com>
Followup-To: talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.cpsr.talk,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt,talk.politics.theory,alt.politics.usa.constitution
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
References: <2o8b9u$5v7@news.acns.nwu.edu> <abellCo22yr.I02@netcom.com> <GREENEG.94Apr13152532@rachmaninov.cs.unc.edu>
Distribution: inet
Date: Fri, 22 Apr 1994 20:42:01 GMT
Lines: 92
Xref: msuinfo talk.politics.crypto:4833 comp.org.cpsr.talk:285 comp.org.eff.talk:32743 alt.privacy.clipper:4046 sci.crypt:26263 talk.politics.theory:30962 alt.politics.usa.constitution:7287

George Greene (greeneg@rachmaninov.cs.unc.edu) wrote:
: Right now, the government is controlled by the few who can (financially)
: afford to control it.  In the process of doing this, they pretty well control
: the rest of us.  The 2nd amendment is pretty irrelevant to all of this.
: The kind of arms needed to fight the US army if it ever wanted to do
: anything local are not the kind that most people know how to use.
: Do you really think YOU can do better than David Koresh?  Do you think
: ANYBODY can?

Uh, the Viet Cong?  And the people didn't even need guns to topple the Soviet
empire.  The most effective revolutions work by conscripting the government's
own army to the cause.  Happens all the time.  The mere fact that there is
a bloody armed revolt that has to be put down with army action can result
in the overthrow of a regime--often by the army itself.

:  :   Mr. Clinton has said that I don't have a right to strong crypto.
:  :   He is mistaken.

: This is too mixed up with the market.

: Anybody who has a right to anything has it 
: irrespective of whether they can AFFORD it.
: I have a RIGHT to legal representation if I am
: in a trial; whether I can afford a lawyer is 
: irrelevant.  

Bullshit.  Ultimately, rights have no physical meaning, only a social one.  
Either you have the power and the balls to do something, or you don't.  Rights 
are merely those things that the powers that be will allow you to do.  In 
western cultures, a right implies only permission--it is not a guarantee that 
you can successfully accomplish anything.  Our culture does grant guarantees of 
success in some matters (e.g., a lawyer for defense against a criminal charge), 
but that's better than just a right to a lawyer.  We have the "right" to use
a lawyer in a civil case too, but the state won't pay for it.

: If I had a right to strong crypto,
: I wouldn't have to buy it.  

Do you have a right to own property?  Do you have to buy it?

: As long as you are
: Saying that only the people who can afford strong
: crypto get to have it, you are just inviting the
: Rich to continue conspiring against the rest of us.

It's a competitive world.  You should assume that just about anyone could be
scheming to eat your lunch.  Could be that rich industrialist uptown.  Could
be that government bureaucrat downtown.  Could be that finanically disadvantaged
welfare-recipient armed with an Uzzi who's about to carjack you.  Don't get
fixated on any one group. And don't be blind to those who might actually be
friendly.

: Demanding strong crypto simply begs the question,
: "What are you trying to hide? and why would you want to??"
: The right to privacy is very overblown.  People do not
: need a right to privacy.  They need a government that
: is serious about outlawing discrimination on the basis
: of the information that is found out after privacy is gone.

I want to hide my financial data so that I can't be targeted for theft, 
kidnapping, embezzlement, or worse.  I wan't to hide my business plans from
competitors.  I wan't to hide my political, religious and social activities
from those who think they have the right to censor/control these activities.
I want the freedom that only privacy can provide.  The more the government
knows, the more it can control.  Even if those currently in power aren't so
bad, history shows that power corrupts--and the more the power, the greater
the incentive for corruption, and the more the corruption hurts. 

It's very sad to see how the ideals of the Declaration of Independence and
the Constitution have dimmed and tarnished.  The Jeffersonian ideal that
"the governemnt which governs best, governs least" has more respect in places
like Chile, Peru, Hong Kong, and even the Czech Republic than it does in
Jefferson's own country.  The Founding Fathers knew the importance of
preventing the concentration of power by division and decentralization.
Modern cryptography promises the greatest division and decentralization of
power since the invention of gunpowder.  So I guess it's only  to be expected
that those whose vested interests are threatened by this change are attacking
it with everything they have.  

Cryptography is a social and political equalizer.  It threatens to overthrow
the establishment just as gunpowder overthrew feudalism.  

The genie's out of the bottle.  Have a good day.
  

 

-- 
--
Alan Lovejoy | INTERNET: lovejoya@netcom.com | Smalltalk-80 Consultant
"Do not go gentle into that good night. Old age should burn and rave 
at the closing of the day.  Rage, rage at the dying of the light!"
