Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!pacbell.com!amdahl!netcomsv!netcom.com!lovejoya
From: lovejoya@netcom.com (Alan Lovejoy)
Subject: Re: What instructions are favorites?
Message-ID: <lovejoyaCoqwBB.Ln3@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
References: <jbaker-190494014330@bellevue-ip4.halcyon.com> <jktaberCoqts2.Jyu@netcom.com>
Date: Sun, 24 Apr 1994 03:57:10 GMT
Lines: 39

John K. Taber (jktaber@netcom.com) wrote:
: James Baker (jbaker@halcyon.com) wrote:
: : Is there a list or profile of what instructions and algorythms are used
: : most in cryptography?  I mean instructions in the most general sense, not
: : just the CPU instructions but techniques such as factoring primes, XORing
: : against a table etc. 

: : Another way I might ask this question is "What functions would the ideal
: : crypto friendly processor/accelerator have?"

: : Are there any books that address this?

: I can't speak for encryption, but for cryptanalyis of classic ciphers,
: here are a few primitive functions:
: 1.  factoring.  into composites as well as primes.  Used for solving
: 		rectangular transpositions, determining periods of
: 		polyalphabetics, etc.  
: 2.  permutation generators.  columns, rows, diagonals, spirals, etc.,
: 		to fit in any orthogonal matrix.
: 3.  sorts.	Radix sort and quicksort seem best.  To avoid MxN
: 		searches.

It would seem that RSA would require fast fixed point multiply/divide and
good support for "bignums" larger than the processor's word size.  A large
word size would also seem to be helpful.  The Motorola 88k could do an
integer multiply in just 4 clock cycles, which may still be faster than any
of the other RISC CPUs, although the new PPC604 has a separate functional
unit devoted just to integer multiply/divide (but I have not yet learned how
many clocks per multiply or divide).

Block ciphers may be helped by fast bitfield instructions--but only if the
compiler uses the instructions and/or you code in assembly.
 

-- 
--
Alan Lovejoy | INTERNET: lovejoya@netcom.com | Smalltalk-80 Consultant
"Do not go gentle into that good night. Old age should burn and rave 
at the closing of the day.  Rage, rage at the dying of the light!"
