Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!sdd.hp.com!apollo.hp.com!netnews
From: aha@apollo.HP.COM (Anne Anderson)
Subject: Re: can smart cards be copied
Sender: usenet@apollo.hp.com (Usenet News)
Message-ID: <CovCG9.581@apollo.hp.com>
Date: Tue, 26 Apr 1994 13:36:09 GMT
References: <2pgpvg$9jh@lily.csv.warwick.ac.uk> <Cou1AF.9GE@cix.compulink.co.uk>
Nntp-Posting-Host: kate.ch.apollo.hp.com
Organization: Hewlett-Packard Company, Chelmsford, MA
Keywords: smart cards
Lines: 81

None of the postings has described what physical security features
were present on the Sky and New Datacom "smart cards", obscuring the
fact that smart cards vary in the security provided.  You can pay for
the degree of security you think you need.

Smart card vendors have considered their physical security mechanisms
proprietary, and have not published much information about them, as I
discovered while researching an OSF DCE RFC on smart cards.  One card
manufacturer, probably typical, provides sensing circuitry under an
opaque coating.  The circuitry detects light, ionizing radiation, and
electromagnetic interference as well as voltage and temperature
fluctuations outside the standard operating ranges.  The circuitry
disables the card if violations are detected.  In addition, the memory
on the the cards is physically scrambled.

[Guillou 92] describes as a basic characteristic of the chip used in a
"smart card" that "the internal buses must never be accessible through
the I/O pins."  With appropriate NVM technology "cell content cannot
be read optically, but can only be determined by electrically
accessing internal buses."

The draft FIPS PUB 140-1 "Security Requirements for Cryptographic
Modules", defines four levels of physical security for cryptographic
modules (including smart cards).  While some of these requirements are
quite expensive to implement, the following extracts give an idea of
the security feaures possible:

Level 1: ...standard techniques for passivation, i.e., a sealing coat
applied over the chip circuitry to protect it against environment or
other physical damage.

Level 2: ..covered with a tamper evident coating (e.g., an opaque
passivation material, or an opaque material covering the passivation).

Level 3: ...covered by a coating of a hard opaque (within the visual
spectrum) material (e.g., an opaque passivation material or an opaque
epoxy over the passivation material) to deter observation, probing or
manipulation of the surface features of the chip... Environmental
failure conditions to be protected against or tested shall include
high and low temperatures, and high and low voltages...

For multi-chip cards: ...encapsulated within an opaque potting
material (e.g. epoxy).  The material shall be opaque within the
visible spectrum.  The hardness and adhesion characteristics ...  such
that attempting to peel or pry the material from the module will have
a high probability of resulting in serious damage to the module.  The
solvency characteristics ... such that dissolving the material to
remove it will have a high probability of dissolving or seriously
damaging the module.

Level 4: ...A removal-resistant coating shall be used.  Removal of the
coating shall have a high probability of resulting in serious damage
to the module.  Environmental failure conditions to be protected
against or tested shall include other unusual environmental conditions
or fluctuations (accidental or induced), such as ionizing radiation
and electromagnetic interference...

For multi-chip cards: ...completely enclosed within a tamper detection
envelope (e.g. a flexible mylar printed circuit with a serpentine
geometric pattern of conductors or a wire-wound package or a
non-flexible, brittle circuit) which will detect tampering by means
such as drilling, milling, grinding or dissolving of the potting
material or cover.  ...tamper response and zeroization circuitry.  The
circuitry shall continuously monitor the tamper detection envelope for
tampering, and upon detection of tampering, shal immediately zeroize
all plaintext cryptographic keys and other unprotected critical
security parameters...

Anne Anderson              1-508-436-5707; HP Telnet 436-5707
Hewlett-Packard, Corp.     Open Systems Software Division
300 Apollo Drive,CHR-03-DC HP/CSO/STG/OSSD/CSSL/DCE/TECH
Chelmsford, MA 01824 USA   Internet: aha@apollo.hp.com

Reference:

  [Guillou 92]: Guillou, Louis Claude, Michel Ugon, Jean-Jacques
  Quisquater, "The Smart Card: A Standardized Security Device
  Dedicated to Public Cryptology", in Simmons, "Contemporary
  Cryptology, The Science of Information Integrity", IEEE Press, 1992,
  Chapter 12, pp.561-614
 
