Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!overload.lbl.gov!dog.ee.lbl.gov!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!swrinde!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!butch!NewsWatcher!user
From: hsmith@lmsc.lockheed.com (Harry Smith)
Subject: Comments on Approach
Message-ID: <hsmith-260494131104@129.197.70.86>
Followup-To: sci.crypt
Sender: news@butch.lmsc.lockheed.com
Organization: Lockheed
Date: Tue, 26 Apr 1994 21:11:04 GMT
Lines: 31

My interest have been to produce high rate commercial ciphers usable for
communication systems. Block ciphers have an a problem with error
extension.  In networks, where bit errors occur even less frequently than
wining  the lottery and bits move faster any Government can spend money,
the re-transmission of errored blocks make sense. In most wireless and
satelite systems, neither case is true.

So I have been playing with using stream cipher for encrypting the
information.  After many starts using PRNG, I kept returning to a perceived
problem.  They are vulnerable to cipher/plain text attacks.  As an
alternative, I have wonder about using a simple Linear Pseudo Random Noise
generator as input to any strong block encryptor.  The output of the block
encryptor would be mod 2 added to my data.

It would seem that this method would be have the strength of the block
cipher without the error extension problem.  Since I am using an LPN
generator, the inital send would be key.  Have I made a mistake?

If the above approach is correct, I still have one last problem.  Block
ciphers are slooow.  The approach would be to use have the cipher stream
operate at a subharmonic of the information data rate.  For example: use a
500 Kbps steam to encrypt a 1 Mbps information stream ( a speed factor of
2).  I believe that for a speed factor of 2 or 3 this scheme would have the
same strength as the original block cipher.  For factors between 3 and 5, I
am not sure.  For factors above 5, it would be weaken.  However, I have no
way of proving any of the above  statements of faith.  Is my faith
misplaced and how would you prove or disprove it?


Harry Smith
hsmith@lmsc.lockheed.com
