Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!bounce-back
From: jan@bagend.atl.ga.us (Jan Isley)
Newsgroups: news.announce.newgroups,news.groups,comp.arch,comp.dsp,comp.lsi,comp.org.ieee,sci.crypt,sci.electronics,sci.math
Subject: 2nd CFV: comp.arch.arithmetic
Followup-To: poster
Date: 27 Apr 1994 08:50:48 -0400
Organization: Usenet Volunteer Votetakers
Lines: 116
Sender: tale@uunet.uu.net
Approved: tale@uunet.uu.net
Expires: 10 May 1994 00:00:00 GMT
Message-ID: <comp.arch.arithmetic-CFV2@uunet.uu.net>
References: <comp.arch.arithmetic-RFD1@uunet.uu.net> <comp.arch.arithmetic-CFV1@uunet.uu.net>
Reply-To: usenet-votes@mathcs.emory.edu (Jan Isley)
NNTP-Posting-Host: rodan.uu.net
Xref: msuinfo news.announce.newgroups:4810 news.groups:102157 comp.arch:49359 comp.dsp:10741 comp.lsi:3908 comp.org.ieee:2674 sci.crypt:26428 sci.electronics:85361 sci.math:70543

                    LAST CALL FOR VOTES (of 2)
              unmoderated group comp.arch.arithmetic

Newsgroups line: 
comp.arch.arithmetic	Implementing arithmetic on computers/digital systems.

Votes must be received by 9 May 1994, 23:59:59 GMT.

Please read this entire post before replying.  Do not assume that
you know how to vote without first reading the directions.

This vote is being conducted by a neutral third party.  Please direct
all questions about the vote to Jan Isley <jan@bagend.atl.ga.us>.

Please direct all questions regarding the proposed new group to the
proponent, Scott Johnson <johnsos@ece.orst.edu>.

The vote taker will mail this CFV to the numeric-interest@validgh.com
mailing list after the official CFV appears in news.announce.newgroups.

CHARTER

comp.arch.arithmetic will be a forum for the discussion of implementing 
arithmetic functions in digital computers (and other digital systems).
There are many other newsgroups which share a peripheral interest with
this topic, but none which deals precisely with the topic of implementing
arithmetic (and logical) functions on digital systems.  Thus, I feel that
this newsgroup would fill a void, as computer arithmetic is an important
field of study.

comp.arch.arithmetic will deal with the topic of computer arithmetic at
several different levels, from the circuit level (how to build a faster
multiplier, for example) to the algorithmic level.  Both hardware and
software implementations of arithmetic will be discussed.  Any problem
involving arithmetic or logical calculations is fair game for discussion,
whether it be ALU design, digital signal processing, cryptography,
minimization of logic equations, or anything else.  This newsgroup is
also for the discussion of various protocols and standards relating to
computer arithmetic, such as IEEE Standard 754.  In short, any topic
relevant to computer arithmetic/logic is acceptable in this newsgroup.

comp.arch.arithmetic is intended to serve all of those with an interest in 
computer arithmetic, from undergraduates wondering what two's complement 
numbers are, to seasoned researchers discussing the latest developments of
the field.  No one should be made to feel unwelcome, simply due to a lack
of experience or knowledge of the topics covered.  Thus, it is intended
that a FAQ be eventually prepared, which answers the more common questions
(as well as providing numerous references and citations to the literature.)
The FAQ is not intended to be a comprehensive guide, but a quick reference.

Generally, any post relating to computer arithmetic or logic is considered 
acceptable.  Posts which are not relevant to the topic at hand, or posts 
which are excessively hostile, are considered unacceptable.  Constructive 
criticism of another's ideas/work are OK, flames are not.  As comp.arch.
arithmetic is an UNMODERATED newsgroup, readers are expected to exercise
their own good judgment when posting.  It is anticipated that the vast
majority of posters will be professional in their behavior, so moderation
is not necessary.

HOW TO VOTE

Send MAIL to: <usenet-votes@mathcs.emory.edu>

Easy voting instructions:

   1) use the ballot
   2) replace ___ with your name (not your address)
      This line is required only if your mail software does not
      include your name in the From: header.
   3) delete the rest of this post, leaving only the two lines that
      indicate your name and your vote
   4) mail it to usenet-votes@mathcs.emory.edu

-=-=- begin ballot - delete everything above this line -=-=-

My name is ___

Include only ONE of the following statements: ( okay to delete this line )

I vote YES on comp.arch.arithmetic
I vote NO on comp.arch.arithmetic
I vote ABSTAIN comp.arch.arithmetic

-=-=- end ballot - delete everything below this line -=-=-

Your vote will be counted by a program, so please use the ballot and
delete all other text from this post.  If your name is not included or
if the group name is not spelled correctly your vote will be rejected.

The vote taker will acknowledge all received ballots by mail - if you
do not receive one within several days, try again.

It is your responsibility to make sure your vote is registered correctly.

ONE VOTE PER PERSON, no more than one person per account.  Duplicate
votes will be resolved in favor of the most recent valid vote.  Voting
from multiple accounts may result in all of your votes being rejected.

Please, do not distribute mutated voting instructions.  This usually
causes serious problems for the voters who use them and for the vote
taker.  When in doubt, please ask the vote taker.

comp.arch.arithmetic Bounce List
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
brooktree.com!alamo.is!mulligan                              Danny Mulligan
caercn.dra.hmg.gb!curtis                                        Paul Curtis
durham.ac.uk!D.J.E.Nunn                                        Douglas Nunn
muse.crj.cray.com!hideaki                                  Hideaki Moriyama

Votes in error
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
columbia.edu!bsb2                                               David Black
   ! No vote statement in message
-- 
Jan Isley <jan@bagend.atl.ga.us>
votes-to: <usenet-votes@mathcs.emory.edu>
