Path: msuinfo!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!swrinde!cs.utexas.edu!utnut!nott!cunews!revcan!rubicon!uuisis!tanda!marc
From: marc@tanda.on.ca (Marc Thibault)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Clipper LEAF holes?
Message-ID: <5oqeLc2w165w@tanda.on.ca>
Date: Tue, 26 Apr 94 16:56:39 EDT
References: <01HBJGKDI63C9TDZ96@delphi.com>
Distribution: world
Organization: Tanda and Associates
Lines: 59

MIKEINGLE@delphi.com (Mike Ingle) writes:

> Even if the receiver can decrypt the first level of the LEAF and examine
> the checksum, it doesn't have your device-unique key, so it cannot check
> to see if the session key in the LEAF is the same session key that you
> sent to it. So it would seem that any valid LEAF would work, even if it
> is not the one for the current session key.

        It seems like Mike is onto something here. Couldn't the LEAF
        be spoofed with a wedge between the chip and the line that
        discards the LEAF, and replaces it with a genuine but archaic
        LEAF? I can see a small, cheap RJ-11 "LEAF green box" with two
        functions:

        1. Generate and save a dummy LEAF by simulating a conversation
           with the chip.

        2. Monitor the line and replace the next LEAF output with the
           saved dummy.

        This would keep traffic monitors happy by putting a valid LEAF
        on all traffic and, while not interfering with communications
        with "straight" units, selectively secure the contents of any
        traffic using "wedged" units at both ends. If Skipjack is not
        crippled, this is very strong encryption; if it isn't, any
        wedged message acts as a barium meal.

        I wonder what the reaction would be when some LE gets a key
        from the escrows and it doesn't work? Seems to me the
        immediate reaction would be that they're being jerked around
        by one or the other escrow or that the machine is broken. The
        only way to show that neither of these is the case would be to
        activate a back door.

        There are, of course, ways for NSA to combat this approach. I
        can think of a few myself. The thing is, each response can
        itself be spoofed in a similar, if more complicated, way. The
        basic principle operative here is that Clipper is not
        resistant to "man in the middle" attacks. Now, if you supply
        your own "man in the middle" ...

        Cheers,

                Marc

---
 Marc Thibault                 | Design, Development, Project Management
 Automation Architect          | Privacy and Trust
 Oxford Mills, Ontario, Canada | End-User Powered Systems

-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
Version: 2.3a

mQA9AiyT2YcAAAEBgKVboQejsR2t2U70HoWOXTIqlWUCRGkTht8Yn/4kuzWby/e3
Z9tT8RHJbAx9us7QZwAFEbQdVGFuZGEgTWFpbCA8bWFyY0B0YW5kYS5vbi5jYT4=
=aFhG
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----

        
