Path: msuinfo!agate!darkstar.UCSC.EDU!news.hal.COM!olivea!decwrl!ames!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!swrinde!cs.utexas.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!zombie.ncsc.mil!golf!mizzou1.missouri.edu!C445585
From: C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: book codes
Date: Wed, 27 Apr 94 19:11:07 CDT
Organization: University of Missouri, Columbia
Lines: 39
Message-ID: <16FA510DCBS86.C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: mizzou1.missouri.edu

 
   Has anyone done anything with using a variant of "book codes" with
crypto-strength PRNGs?  I can think of several methods of doing this.
 
   The simplest scheme seems to be something like:
 
   1.  Break the message to be transmitted into M-bit "words."
   2.  Encode each word as how many bits in the PRNG output
       sequence had to be skipped.
   3.  Use the next few bits of PRNG output after encoding a word to
       decide a number of bits to skip in the PRNG output before
       encoding the next word.
 
   This scheme probably would need an assumed output block length, and
maybe an "escape" code for the rare occasions that needed more than that
number of bits to encode how many bits were skipped.  Also, this scheme
would output ciphertext that could be compressed, and it would fall on
an approximation of the normal curve.  Note that (3) above is needed to
keep an attacker using a chosen-ciphertext attack from getting the direct
PRNG output.  Also note that the escape code above would have to change
each time it was used.
 
   A different use would be to use it to generate stronger PRNG outputs.
Suppose we want to define a strong but slower PRNG based on two faster
but less strong ones.  Let PRNG0 and PRNG1 be the fast, weak PRNGs.
 
   To generate one strong PRNG bit:
 
   1.  Generate an n-bit block from PRNG0, and an m-bit word from PRNG1.
   2.  If the m-bit word appears anywhere in the n-bit block, emit a 1,
       else emit a 0.
 
   Note that m and n can be chosen to give 0/1 even probabilities or to
skew the bits one way or another.
 
   Any comments?  Has this kind of scheme been done before?
 
   --John Kelsey, c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu
 
