Newsgroups: talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.cpsr.talk,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt,talk.politics.theory,alt.politics.usa.constitution
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!csn!csus.edu!netcom.com!grady
From: grady@netcom.com (Grady Ward)
Subject: Re: "Open Sesame"--MacNeil-Lehrer Report on Clipper
Message-ID: <gradyCoz6A5.Hwv@netcom.com>
Followup-To: talk.politics.crypto,comp.org.cpsr.talk,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt,talk.politics.theory,alt.politics.usa.constitution
Organization: +1 707 826 7715
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
Distribution: inet
Date: Thu, 28 Apr 1994 15:13:17 GMT
Lines: 54
Xref: msuinfo talk.politics.crypto:4912 comp.org.cpsr.talk:357 comp.org.eff.talk:32955 alt.privacy.clipper:4104 sci.crypt:26509 talk.politics.theory:31141 alt.politics.usa.constitution:7384


Sternlight, I wish you would put your vita on anonymous ftp.
It is a positive drain on bandwidth for you to post it again
and again.

Besides, posting what you have done in the past doesn't weaken
the thesis that you are highly-educated (or once were), but
stupid.

Compared to people who are bright but less educated, I pity
your situation.  See the essay by William G. Perry, Jr. in
_Examining in Harvard College: A Collection of Essays_ by
members of the Harvard Faculty Harvard University Press 1963
Cambridge, Mass.

He contrasts the students who are able to bullshit their way
through an examination compared to those who have to 'cowshit'
their way through.

cow (pure): data, however relevant, without relevancies
bull (pure): relevancies, however relevant, without data

Perry goes on to describe the act of cowing:

To list data (or perform operations) without awareness of,
or comment upon, the contexts, frames of reference, or points
of observation which determine their origin, nature, and meaning
of the data (or procedures).  To write on the assumption that
"a fact is a fact". To present evidence of hard work as a substitute
for understanding, without any intent to deceive.

Perry discusses the relative success of bull vs. cow in
Harvard examinations, but sums up:

As for cow, its complexities are not what need concern us.  Unlike
good bull, it does not represent partial knowledge at all.  It belongs
to a different theory of knowledge entirely. In our theories of
knowledge it represents total ignorance, or worse yet, a knowledge
downright inimical to understanding.  I even go so far as to
propose that we award no more C's for cow.  To do so rarely, I feel,
the act of mercy it seems.  Mercy lies in clarity.


Let me be as clear as I can Sternlight. You have no idea of
Natural Law or social compacts, computer science, and probably 
little else.  You may have a dimly-glowing grasp of bureaucratic
in-fighting, but if you are waiting for Ron Brown to give you a job
with the administration, you are going to be out of luck -- you
have exposed the soft underbelly of cowshit and are giving us
Usenet beetles a great deal of extra work.

-- 
Grady Ward  +1 707 826 7715  (voice /24hr FAX)
'finger grady@netcom.com' for information about Moby lexicons
