Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!sdd.hp.com!network.ucsd.edu!qualcom.qualcomm.com!chicago.qualcomm.com!karn
From: karn@chicago.qualcomm.com (Phil Karn)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: STU-3 Secure Telephones?
Message-ID: <1992Mar31.195025.18689@qualcomm.com>
Date: 31 Mar 92 19:50:25 GMT
References: <iv1pu1o@sgi.sgi.com>
Sender: news@qualcomm.com
Organization: Qualcomm, Inc
Lines: 30
Nntp-Posting-Host: chicago.qualcomm.com


Yes, CVSD might be a good near-term solution, especially as faster modems
become widespread. "V.fast" is another possibility, although I don't know
the actual data rate or how well it will operate over standard phone lines.

This is another important issue -- will the modems work over almost
any telephone path? I would venture to say that most data applications
of V.32 modems are over local telephone circuits where conditions are
usually good. But a useful secure telephone would have to operate over
all of the same circuits that you use for ordinary voice calls,
including various long distance and international carriers. I know
I've had real trouble making V.32 work from many hotel rooms, maybe
their PBXes don't provide true 64kb/s PCM talking paths.

Given the FBI's paranoia about the difficulty of executing wiretaps
when digital technologies are used, even those not intended to make
eavesdropping harder, I wonder how they'll treat the prospect of
secure phones being widely available in a few years? It's definitely
going to happen once computers have the necessary hardware as standard
equipment. All it will take is the right software. I'll write it
myself and give it away if necessary. Let's hope this happens before
the FBI figures out how to make them illegal. The best way to preserve
a right (like privacy) is to exercise it...

There is one possible countermeasure that the FBI could use against
such phones -- just get the local phone company to introduce enough
noise or timing jitter to force the "suspect" to go clear instead of
using his secure phone.

Phil
