Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!jvnc.net!yale.edu!qt.cs.utexas.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!snorkelwacker.mit.edu!ai-lab!gnu.ai.mit.edu
From: rms@gnu.ai.mit.edu (Richard Stallman)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: GATT and software patents
Message-ID: <9203302106.AA04117@mole.gnu.ai.mit.edu>
Date: 30 Mar 92 21:06:02 GMT
Sender: news@ai.mit.edu
Lines: 78


    This bit bothered me in a previous posting by someone. There is indeed
    a portion of the GATT treaty that seeks to bring about equilisation of
    the patent laws, but, as you know, it is only the US that have software
    patent laws.

Not just the US--the UK and Japan also have software patents.  But you
are right that many countries don't have them now.

This is why the GATT is threatening to programmers in those
countries--because it seems to be written so as to force those
countries to have software patents.

    I went into MERT (Ministry of External Relations and Trade) after talking
    with the HOD of Commercial Law (who suggested it) and asked them what our
    position was: their initial reaction was that they believed they would
    follow that rule imposed in the commonwealth, i.e algorithms cannot be
    patented.

I don't think they answered the same question you were asking.
"Software patents" is not synonymous with "patented algorithms".

Many of the software patents in the US could not be described as
covering "an algorithm", but they still cause trouble.  Sometimes this
is because they are too simple to make an algorithm--for example, the
patent covering using exclusive or to write a display screen.
Sometimes they are so broad that no specific algorithm is
involved--for example, the US patent that covers all public key
encryption, or the one that covers backing store in window systems.
Some patents cover features, such as IBM's patent covering text and
numeric processing on the same screen.

Thus, "no patented algorithms" does not mean you don't have a problem.
At least one commonwealth country--the UK--already does have a problem.

In the US, the law says that there cannot be a patent on a
"mathematical algorithm".  There are many US patents which we would
describe as covering mathematical algorithms.  Examples include the
two patents that cover LZW data compression.

What happens is that the US patent office and courts do not regard
these patents as covering mathematical algorithms.  They find other
ways to interpret these patents philosophically.  In some cases, they
say that the patent covers a physical process of electrons moving
around inside a computer.  The fact that the motion is described at a
high level which corresponds to the choice of algorithm, they regard
as inconsequential.  One of the articles by Professor Samuelson in
CACM explains more about this.

Thus, "no patented algorithms" does not necessarily avoid even the
algorithms part of the patent problem.

Perhaps your conclusion from the first meeting was right, but I advise
you not to rely on that.  I suggest you go back to the ministry and
try to pin down the operational consequences of what they are saying.

In addition, it would be good to show them the following text from
GATT and pin down its operational consequences.  You might want to
mention specific examples of patents that exist in the US, and ask
whether such patents are possible in your country, and whether GATT
would make them possible, and why.


			    SECTION 5:  PATENTS

		  Article 27:  Patentable Subject Matter

1.   Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 below, patents shall
be available for any inventions, whether products or processes, in all
fields of technology, provided that they are new, involve an inventive step
and are capable of industrial application.1  Subject to paragraph 4 of
Article 65 and paragraph 3 of this Article, patents shall be available and
patent rights enjoyable without discrimination as to the place of
invention, the field of technology and whether products are imported or
locally produced.

[Article 65 provides for transition periods for developing countries
and former communist countries.]
