Xref: msuinfo sci.math:25771 sci.crypt:7892
Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!nosc!blkhole!titipu!ed
From: ed@titipu.meta.com (Edward Reid)
Newsgroups: sci.math,sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Mathematical intuition (was: New Mersenne Prime)
Message-ID: <01010064.06jdsg@titipu.meta.com>
Date: 4 Apr 92 17:12:44 GMT
Article-I.D.: titipu.01010064.06jdsg
Reply-To: ed@titipu.meta.com (Edward Reid)
Organization: Metalogic
Lines: 35
X-Mailer: uAccess - Macintosh Release: 1.9b1

In article <1992Mar31.090151.18639@dde.dk>, ct@dde.dk (Claus Tondering) writes:
> I guess what I'm really asking is: Does the term "mathematical intuition"
> make any sense? Does having hunches about unprovable things make any
> sense?

Yes.  A lot depends on who has worked on the problem, and how much effort has
been spent on it, whether any approaches seemed promising, whether the dead
ends were "hard" (ie a clear flaw found) or "soft" (still open to development).
 A good example of the latter was the four-color map problem: there were
promising approaches for years, but they were stymied by complexity.  The
problem was solved with the aid of computers to search for the basis (of over
1900 elements, if I remember correctly) required for the final proof.

In the case at hand, at least two broad approaches are conceivable: prove a
generator (or lack thereof), or prove an upper bound (or lack thereof). 
Experience with similar problems indicates that a generator, if any, is likely
to be simple, yet many have been proposed and disproved.  Furthermore, a
generator of Mersenne primes would also be a generator of primes, a much more
general thing which has also never been found.  Probably the impression of
those who have studied the problem is that an upper bound, if any, would be
easier to prove than the lack thereof.  This is problem-specific, of course --
the infinitude of primes is easy to prove, for example.

In all this, I'm assuming that we are actually discussing "unproven" rather than
"unprovable".  What would "unprovable" mean?  Either provably false (a trivial
meaning) or undecidable.  Has anything been proven undecidable?  Is this
possible?  I know that for certain problems, such as the Fermat conjecture,
it's impossible because a proof of undecidability would be equivalent to a
proof of the conjecture.  Does this generalize?

I suppose I should be reading sci.math instead of sci.crypt if I really wanted
to know.  There's this small problem of copious spare time...

Edward Reid  (8-}>
  eel:   ed@titipu.meta.com  or  nosc.mil!titipu.meta.com!ed
  snail: PO Box 378/Greensboro FL 32330
