Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!rpi!batcomputer!cornell!wayner
From: wayner@cs.cornell.edu (Peter Wayner)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Why use DES? A naive question
Keywords: DES, NSA, M-O-U-S-E
Message-ID: <1992Apr21.171200.21262@cs.cornell.edu>
Date: 21 Apr 92 17:12:00 GMT
References: <1992Apr21.030517.12339@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu>
Organization: Cornell Univ. CS Dept, Ithaca NY 14853
Lines: 51

pciszek@isis.cs.du.edu (Paul Ciszek) writes:

>I have seen people post here asking for various implementations of the
>Data Encryption Standard, and saw a list of European-made DES chips.  I
>don't understand WHY anyone would want to use the DES, if what I have read
>about it is true, namely that the key length was intentionally held down to
>56 bits so that the NSA could leave itself a back door somewhere.  In
>particular, why would Europeans want to use a cryptosystem that is readable
>by the US government?

Ah, the reason many of us want to use DES is because we've been taught a good
lesson about paranoia. Many people have tried to construct ciphers that are
similar to DES because they worried about hidden trap doors. But recent
papers by Biham and Shamir showed that DES was actually many times stronger
than these amateur efforts. Some people at IBM say that they knew about
Biham and Shamir's Differential Cryptanalysis and they specifically designed
DES to resist it. The fact is that there are many subtle and hidden tricks
to cryptography and the NSA is, by far, the world expert. 

Now, you have a choice, you can use a system developed by someone who
you hope is an expert (and there aren't many public members of this
group), or you can accept that the government didn't put in trap
doors. Remember, there are many good reasons why the government wanted
to build a really strong and unbreakable cipher. The Soviets (the
enemy at DES's birth) spent plenty of their spy-hours in the US just
stealing non-military technology. They fabbed their own VAX chips and
used some of the spare space on the die to write "VAX, when you care
enough to steal the very best." The economic strength of the country
is something that just isn't worth compromising. The terrorists and
the Soviets aren't going to use DES-- they'll design their own system
just to be sure. The only people who are going to be using DES are the
American companies.

So what if you are a modern major company and you want to decide on a
cipher that is easily implemented, well-tested and secure against many
attacks.  Many software companies implemented the same standard so it
is possible to send files from machine to machine without plenty of
work. There are more than a handful of chips that were built to
encrypt data with DES very quickly. DES is actually a pretty good
choice. If 56 bits aren't enough, you can encrypt the data three times
over with three different keys.


Just figured I would repeat it. 

>--
>Paul Ciszek, pciszek@nyx.cs.du.edu | Saddam Hussein still has a job; do you?
-- 
Peter Wayner   Department of Computer Science Cornell Univ. Ithaca, NY 14850
EMail:wayner@cs.cornell.edu    Office: 607-255-9202 or 255-1008
Home: 116 Oak Ave, Ithaca, NY 14850  Phone: 607-277-6678
