Syfre is an encryption/decryption utility.  The user inputs two eight
character passwords which are used to determine a sequence of 32 cyphers
through which the data is passed.

Encoding is the default action.  It can also be selected with the "-e"
option.  Decoding requires the "-d" option.

Input is read from stdin, or from a file specified by the "-i filename"
option.  Output goes to stdout, or the file specified by "-o filename".
When using the latter option, already existing files are never overwritten;
use the "-O filename" option to force overwriting.

Extra options:
    baby:
        Only 16 cyphers are used.  This makes the output smaller, but
        less secure.  By default this option is off; the command line
        option "-b" turns it on.
    text:
        Output is text, instead of binary (suitable for email or posting).
        By default this option is off (since it makes for larger output
        files); the command line option "-t" turns it on.

-------------

To build syfre, just type "make".  If this fails, you might have to 
change the makefile.  Most entries which might need changing are near
the beginning of the makefile; be sure that AR, CP, etc, are all pointing
to the correct locations.

-------------

Documentation (found in the docs/ dubdirectory):

    general:  general description of syfre.

    howto:    contains a step-by-step description of how to add new cyphers.

    readme:   this file.

    specific: specific details about the workings of syfre.

    System dependent Makefiles and changes are kept in the directory system.

-------------

If you have a cypher which is relatively simple and fast and good, and
you want it included in later versions, email it to me.  Please include
both your .c file and a .doc file, roughly in the same format as the
ones provided (I may change this style if a better one springs up).
Say something like "new cypher" in the subject line.

Mail new cyphers to *one* of (in order of preference):

       wallace@math.berkeley.edu
       merle@wucs1.wustl.edu     

