Path: msuinfo!agate!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!swrinde!gatech!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!paperboy.wellfleet.com!noc.near.net!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: padrote@delphi.com
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: A need for a moderated group.
Date: Thu, 30 Jun 94 19:57:35 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 41
Message-ID: <hqxTpUf.padrote@delphi.com>
References: <2ursgh$phb@ccu2.auckland.ac.nz> <5yzR5kN.padrote@delphi.com> <2uu3s3$i6t@lyra.csx.cam.ac.uk>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1b.delphi.com
X-To: Andrew Haley <aph@cam-orl.co.uk>

   I do understand the purpose of moderation. It's used when you have a 
controversial, flame-inspiring topic - like atheism, feminism, abortion, gun 
control, and apparently cryptology - and you want to limit the discussion to 
narrowly defined limits. I don't doubt that an unmoderated alt.atheism would 
be clogged with posts calling down the Holy Fist of Eternal Damnation, but 
come on, what do you expect? Do you think the reaction would be any 
different if you rented a room and held public meetings on the subject? How 
would you implement "moderation" in that case? By turning off the 
microphones of people who got out of line? Or with a squad of bouncers to 
lift people out of their chairs and throw them out of the room? I don't 
doubt that alt.atheism.moderated "works", but only at the cost of limiting 
what people are allowed to say.

   What I like about the usenet news is that it is raw and unedited. This is 
one of the few places where people can write whatever they please. I value 
that absolute freedom, and I'm not afraid of it. I would hate to have it 
taken away just to prevent a small number of fools from holding extended 
flame wars. If I want peer review, I will submit my articles to a refereed 
journal. That's not what usenet is.

   To tell the truth, I don't even agree with you that this group has 
strayed from the topic recently.  Can you name some specific threads which 
you would not have allowed? Perhaps you don't like the idea of people 
throwing out "challange ciphers". I don't either. But today I see that 
somebody did solve the one that was posted last week, and it gave me a 
smile. Somebody took the time to show this individual that designing strong 
crypto is a lot harder than it looks. That's a valuable lesson, and it may 
discourage others from throwing out similar challenges. On the other hand, 
it may give the amateur cryptographers of the world the idea that sci.crypt 
is the place to come to have their new systems tested. But so what? If 
that's not what people want to do here, they can just ignore the challenges, 
like I do. I have an 'N' key on my computer, and I use it often.

   I guess it all comes down to this: I value the freedom of speech that I 
have here. There are responsibilities that come with that freedom, and I 
accept them. That some others abuse their freedom does not seem like a good 
enough reason for me to give up mine.

John


