Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!sunic!EU.net!uunet!senior.nectec.or.th!rosebud!com!wov!john.dehaven
From: john.dehaven@wov.com (john dehaven)
Date: 01 Jul 94 15:22:01 +0700
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: 2.6 <> 2.3?
Message-ID: <c0b_9407021326@rosebud.bbs.or.th>
X-Mail-Agent: GIGO+ sn 80 at rosebud vsn 0.99 pl1
X-FTN-To: Erno Tuomainen
Organization: Pubnet - Bangkok, Thailand
Lines: 129

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

 ET> I have been wondering about these different versions of PGP. 2.6 and
 ET> 2.3. 2.6 used mainly in USA and 2.3 in other countries. Why this? Are
 ET> 2.3 and 2.6 compatible, why 2.3 can be spreaded around but 2.6 not?
 ET> What's the difference and WHY IN THE HELL ARE PEOPLE USING DIFFERENT
 ET> VERSIONS, if they are not compatible?

Generally speaking the different versions are not only intended
to be compatible, and usually are, but to _enhance_ compatibility.

This is mainly because of US laws, one of which has given
certain patent rights to a certain US company which do not
extend outside of the US, and the other of which "regulates"
export of cryptographic products.  Because of this there have
been deliberate _incompatibilities_ introduced (e.g. MIT 2.6
which will cease to communicate in certain ways after 1 Sept) in
an attempt to suppress versions that are "illegal" or regarded
as being in a controversial "legal" position.  (Inside the USA.)

This has left people in a bind of two kinds: the real one being
that no compatible version existed "legally" outside the US to
comply with 2.6 after 1 Sept.  To meet this need, outside people
have generated versions that will comply.  MIT has not made this
difficult, and did only the minimum they had to do to satisfy
the legal hammerheads inside the USA.

Many people in the USA imagine that MIT has a hidden agenda and
don't trust them.  IMSO this impression is "reasonably" based on
what public CYA statements MIT has been required to make.  But if
anyone takes the time to check they will discover that there is
nothing diabolical in the least about MIT 2.6, and that in fact
what MIT has done is provide a free, legal version for people
INSIDE the US to use, with a comparatively easy way for people
OUTSIDE the US to generate compliant versions.  IMHO it was a
*brilliant* move on their part!

(But, note, they MUST generate such compliant versions, and will
probably distinguish them in some way with a version
designation, for both technical AND legal reasons.)

There also exist "experimental" versions, and always will.  Some
of these add features (long keys) or try to do things
faster/better (key management) or try to patch bugs.  It is
reasonable to me that experimenters distinguish the products of
their versions, even if it is only so that if something goes
wrong with a message or something, they know what produced it:
the "version designator" provides traceability.  Nevertheless,
several "personal experimental" versions pretend to be
"established" versions.

Whatever you see about "versions" you can be sure that they are
going to TRY to be as compatible as possible; even to overcome
legally-enforced incompatabilities.

As to what version(s) you should use, any version that is
intended to be distributed generally and supported by someone as
a general distribution will be posted clearly in one or more
publically-accessable place(s), and announced as such, and
usually the reasons for it will be made clear.

My advice is to ignore any oddball version-designators that
happen to fly by if they are NOT being offered for general
use--the bottom line about any of these is if they work or not.
You are probably seeing someone's "personal experimental"
version in such a case.

     BTW, if you bump into something in any message using a
     "strange" version that seems not to work, I am sure the
     originator of the message would very much like some e-mail
     about that.

Generally speaking interoperability is the only bottom line that
matters.  What you see happening is a convergence of the mainly
legal, but to some smaller degree technical, problems of
NON-interoperability.  Your best choice of version is to pick
something that will continue to be compatible after 1 Sept with
MIT 2.6.

     In general, IMSO, US citizens inside America have no ACTUAL
     good reason not to use MIT 2.6 or its successors for
     personal/research uses, or ViaCrypt 2.7 (or its successors)
     for _commercial_ uses inside the USA.  Paranoia is IMSO
     misplaced about these products.  Americans should reserve
     their paranoia-energy for the very real threats mostly
     originating with the Justice Department to enforce
     intrusions into their privacy.  See the clipper/skipjack
     and digital-telephony initiatives for some SERIOUS threats.
     IMSO MIT is NOT a party to that, and are not JD or NSA stooges.

     Non-US citizens abroad do not "US-legally" have these
     options, but what's really legal for them depends on the
     laws of _their_ contries, and not of the US.  The leading
     least-controversial contender right now appears to be 2.6ui.

     Caveat: IMHO it is also UNwise for US citizens abroad to
     use one of the "export controlled" versions, or even to
     _pretend_ to be using one of those versions.  That's
     because if you do, upon return to the US, you might be, um,
     asked to prove that you did not violate ITAR and export it
     yourself.  Why take a risk you don't NEED to take?

Disclamer: these are my opinions only.  You must decide for
yourself, ultimately, using the best judgements you can make,
and it is certainly too bad that the American legal climate has
contributed to the confusion and made it harder to judge.

So if you see a plethora of versions, it not only represents the
natural evolution of a product, but also some very strange
quirks about how that evolution has progressed, entirely due to
US laws in regards encryption products.  But in general it
represents a convergence in interoperability, features,
buglessness and so on, PLUS ways of coping with legal
abberations and pathology.

   --BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.7b

iQCVAgUBLhQXsY2DHK+ncK5xAQGq4QP+Ntolf9ZgL1bGaQyt4xzfD8pCHFIbhrVw
31T0zeokWuJ7rxeyYWyc6bCGz2NH0hJ1A90SESlNxhYgF6DHSgK8OpRKaaFHRHY+
wIe7iQEsUC4uvvJk2etLlhI+Jt/aL9lFgUEm7M+M8NYRYb1M1v5RUYfAUHHpnL1g
8QTh3i/GWr8=
=WE+X
   --END PGP SIGNATURE-----


--
Email: john.dehaven@wov.com
Another War on Virus subscriber - my views are my own.
