Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!news.acns.nwu.edu!news.eecs.nwu.edu!tellab5!chinet!schneier
From: schneier@chinet.chinet.com (Bruce Schneier)
Subject: Hiding Ciphertext in Ciphertext
Message-ID: <CrqAxu.660@chinet.chinet.com>
Date: Tue, 21 Jun 1994 03:56:17 GMT
Organization: Chinet - Public Access UNIX
Lines: 55


Alice and Bob have been sending encrypted messages to each other
for the past year.  Eve has been collecting them all, but she
cannot decrypt any of them.  Finally, the secret police tired of
all this unreadable ciphertext and arrest the pair.  "Give us
your encryption keys," they demand.  Alice and Bob refuse, but
then they notice the thumbscrews.  What can they do?

Wouldn't it be nice to be able to encypt a file such that there
are two possible decryptions, each with a different key.  She
could encypt a real message to Bob in one of the keys, and some
innocuous message in the other key.  If Alice was cought, she
could surrender the key to the innocuous message and keep the
real key secret.

The easiest way to do this is with one-time pads.  Let P be the
plaintext, D the dummy plaintext, K the ciphertext, K the real
key, and K' the dummy key.  Alice encrypts P:

     P XOR K = C

Alice and Bob share K, so Bob can decrypt C:

     C XOR K = P

If the secret police ever force them to surreder their key, they
don't surrender K, but instead surrender:

     K' = C XOR D

The police then recover the dummy plaintext:

     C XOR K' = D

Since these are one time pads and K is completely random, there
is no way to prove that K' was not the real key.  To make matters
more convincing, Alice and Bob should concact some mildly
incriminating dummy messages to take the place of the really
incriminating real messages. 

Another method is to encrypt P with a conventional algorithm and
K, and D with K'.  Intertwine bits (or bytes) of the ciphertext
to make the final ciphertexts.  If the secret police demand the
key, Alice gives them K' and says that the alternating bits (or
bytes) are random noise designed to frustrate cryptanalysis.  The
trouble is the explanation is so implausable that the secret
police will probably not believe her (especially considering it
is suggested in this book).

Finally, Alice and Bob can use the subliminal channels in their
digital signature protocols.  This is undetectable, works great,
but has the drawback of only allowing 20 or so characters of
subliminal text to be sent per signed innocuous message.

Does anyone have comments on this?
