Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!sunic!EU.net!uunet!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: lharnisch@delphi.com
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: nsa museum... from washington post.
Date: Sun, 3 Jul 94 01:00:43 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 111
Message-ID: <Jg+zp+z.lharnisch@delphi.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1b.delphi.com

The following story about the NSA museum appeared in the Washington
Post some months ago.....
 
 
 
By KEN RINGLE  WASHINGTON POST
 
 
 
   WASHINGTON--In the shadowy world of U.S. intelligence agencies, the
National Security Agency has always been the most clandestine.
 
   About 20,000 people work at the mirror-windowed complex at Ft. Meade
between Baltimore and Washington, but until 1989 there wasn't even a sign
in front of the buildings. The 1952 executive order that created the
agency was itself classified. For years it was a federal crime even to
say it existed.
 
   Therefore, as might be expected, when the *NSA* opened its own *museum*
recently, it did things a little differently. It held the first opening
in July and didn't tell the public. It held a second ribbon-cutting in
December for the public but didn't tell the press.
 
   When a reporter heard of the *museum* recently from a source close to
the *NSA,* he was able to locate it only after an extended series of calls
to the agency.
 
   "People tend to be a bit sensitive around here," said Stephen J.
McAnallen, a surprisingly good-natured man finally located under the
oxymoronic title of *NSA* public affairs officer. "It sort of comes with
the territory."
 
   With McAnallen's help, the National Cryptologic *Museum* was ultimately
discovered in a defunct motel at the end of a crumbling road behind a
Shell gas station just off Route 32 from the Baltimore-Washington
Parkway. It would be a highly anonymous location were it not surrounded
by a high chain-link fence with barbed wire on top.
 
   The *museum* is the latest step in the gradual demythologizing of the
agency--a process former director and until recently Defense
Secretary-designate Bobby Ray Inman started more than 10 years ago, said
David A. Hatch, 51, an *NSA* historian waiting inside.
 
   "Some fairly detailed books and articles" about the long-secret agency
had appeared by then and, although many in the agency remain almost
pathological in their passion for anonymity, "people have discovered the
world won't crumble if the words "cryptology' or "sigint' appear in
print," he said.
 
   Sigint--intelligence gleaned from the interception and decryption of
government and military signals--is, of course, what *NSA* is all about.
And, as exhibits in what once was the motel's bar indicate, its origins
are as old as coded writings and invisible ink.
 
   The *museum* displays two books on cryptography dating from the 16th
Century, as well as a small but elegant wooden cipher machine, found in
West Virginia and dating from around 1800, that may have originated in
the fertile mind of Thomas Jefferson.
 
   Other exhibits show how sigint multiplied during the Civil War, when
Union and Confederate signal corpsmen read each other's wigwagged
troop-movement signals and tapped each other's telegraph lines.
 
   But the bulk of the *museum* is devoted to sigint's boom years--those
between World War I and 1974, when publication of F. W. Winterbotham's
book "The Ultra Secret" finally disclosed the greatest and most closely
held secret of World War II.
 
   An improbable combination of Polish foresight, British genius,
American technology and German hubris permitted the Allied forces to read
German and Japanese radio signals for most of the war. It was so vital
that most historians now recognize it as the key ingredient in the Allied
victory, particularly at such crucial moments as the Battle of the
Atlantic against German U-boats; the Battle of Midway, which halted
Japan's advance in the Pacific; and the invasion of Normandy.
 
   At the heart of the code-breaking struggle was the storied Enigma
cipher machine, an ingenious electromechanical typewriter fitted with a
system of adjustable rotors designed to produce a cipher so complex it
would defy human solution.
 
   The Germans considered their Enigma-based codes unbreakable. And so
they might have been had not some Polish cryptographers managed to
reproduce an Enigma machine from documents sold to them by an embittered
German aristocrat whose fortunes had reduced him to a signal clerk.
 
   After the invasion of Poland, the replica Enigma was smuggled to
Britain, where British code-breakers managed to devise a pioneering
electronic computer called "the bombe," designed to exhaust and therefore
solve the mathematical possibilities of Enigma rotor settings. The rest
is, quite literally, history.
 
   *Museum* curator Earl J. Coates, 54, appears mildly miffed that *NSA's*
own bombe was loaned to the Smithsonian Institution's "Information Age"
exhibit before his own *museum* was up and running. The *NSA museum,*
however, is awash in Enigma machines--Luftwaffe Enigmas, U-boat Enigmas
and even an Enigma visitors can play with themselves.
 
   Also on display is the U.S. Sigma machine, the only cipher machine of
World War II whose codes were never broken.
 
   The National Cryptologic *Museum,* reached by exiting the
Baltimore-Washington Parkway at Route 32 and heading behind the Shell
station, is open from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. Some at *NSA*
say you can reach it at 301-688-5849. Others at *NSA* deny that number
exists.
 
 
.
 
cheers.... Larry Harnisch
