Path: msuinfo!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!swrinde!pipex!sunic!EU.net!uunet!newsgate.watson.ibm.com!watnews.watson.ibm.com!locutus.rchland.ibm.com!wo0z.rchland.ibm.com!lwloen
From: lwloen@wo0z.rchland.ibm.com (Larry Loen)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.org.acm,alt.privacy,alt.privacy,talk.politics.crypto
Subject: Re: USACM Calls for Clipper Withdrawal
Date: 4 Jul 1994 04:43:51 GMT
Organization: IBM Rochester MN
Lines: 47
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2v8427$1d2d@locutus.rchland.ibm.com>
References: <2uvbdn$rv@news1.digex.net> <strnlghtCsALw7.7HG@netcom.com> <2v45fq$eqh@access3.digex.net> <strnlghtCsCGBq.n5B@netcom.com>
Reply-To: lwloen@rchland.vnet.ibm.com
NNTP-Posting-Host: wo0z.rchland.ibm.com
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:29305 comp.org.acm:2845 alt.privacy:16488 talk.politics.crypto:6346

[Discussion, counterdiscussion, and surrrebuttal all deleted]

David, I have a simple suggestion.  

Is it too late to avoid another flamewar?

The ACM is a big, successful, well-organized group, filled with
intelligent members.  I think everyone agrees with that.

But, it is not impossible for a cog to jump out of the clockworks now and
again, in any such group.

Still, this isn't some obscure subgroup debating new features of APL or something;
Clipper is, of course, one of the hottest things around.

In short, this release is something we'll surely hear about in ACM publications.

Instead of postings that sound like sour grapes because they came up
with an answer I presume (from your many past postings) that you don't
like, why not wait until the next issue of Communications of the ACM
comes out?

If the group indeed exceed its charter, we will all surely read about it
there shortly, with the kind of rueful appologies to members I'd expect
if you are right.

On the other hand, if they were delegated the job of deciding ACM's 
policy or USACM's policy (not clear to me if one and the same and I read
the release as well as your commentary), then that will surely become
known, too.

What is incontrovertable is that many large organizations delegate authority
to various committees and many important votes are not made by the general
membership.  This is true of large corporations and a variety of nonprofit
groups as well which are run on a business model.

So, instead of everyone taking sides and one group eventually lookin' kind
of dumb, why not let ACM sort it out and tell us what it thinks, by the
simple expedient of waiting for CACM to come out?  I have
a hunch it is quite capable of it and more than a few Ph. Ds will chip in
if it does not.

-- 
   Larry W. Loen        |  My Opinions are decidedly my own, so please
                        |  do not attribute them to my employer

   email to:  lwloen@rchland.vnet.ibm.com
