Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!udel!news2.sprintlink.net!news.sprintlink.net!nwnexus!beauty!rwing!pat
From: pat@rwing.UUCP (Pat Myrto)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy,comp.org.acm
Subject: DS' idea of 'rights' (was Re: USACM Calls for Clipper Withdrawal)
Message-ID: <3613@rwing.UUCP>
Date: 4 Jul 94 17:04:41 GMT
References: <strnlghtCsE44v.Axn@netcom.com> <CsEDIL.L5z@ncifcrf.gov> <strnlghtCsEKEJ.Guw@netcom.com>
Followup-To: talk.politics.crypto,alt.privacy
Organization: Totally Unorganized
Lines: 124
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:29332 alt.privacy:16501 comp.org.acm:2853

NOTE REDIRECTED FOLLOWUPS TO MORE APPROPRIATE GROUPS.

In article <strnlghtCsEKEJ.Guw@netcom.com> david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight) writes:
>In article <CsEDIL.L5z@ncifcrf.gov>,
>Jerry N. Alexandratos <alexandr@ncifcrf.gov> wrote:
>>To: david@sternlight.com
>>Subject: Re: USACM Calls for Clipper Withdrawal
>>

[ ... sour grapes at apparant less than enthusiastic reception by the ACM
 of the Trap Door Chip for 'privacy' and the Official Gov't Idea that 'law
 enforcement needs override any and all Basic Individual Rights, and that
 common folk have no real right to privacy from the STATE' deleted ... ]

This .sig of Sternlight's has been bugging me for some time, it needs a bit
of comment and perhaps clarification, IMO, and from what I have seen it
hasn't drawn any.  Some whoppers there that one cannot let slide...

>-- 
>The values that define our common-sense world are under assault. Some have

Yes they really are.  By the people pushing the 'New World Order' agenda
and state control or monitoring of virtually every facet of our lives
that are currently residing in the White House, backed by a platoon of
3 letter agencies that want more and more power/budget and feel They
Know Best and that government and the people exist to serve their
pleasure, not forgetting the current crew of lobbiests cum Cabinet
members to keep everything on the up-n-up.

>taken to extremes the spurious notion of freedom without responsibility, and

Yes, that annoying Bill of Rights, and the Ninth and Tenth Amendments
especially ARE spurious, aren't they...  Who did they think they were,
anyway, that wrote it, to acually imply that government have limits,
and that non-elite peons of society (the people who are not CFR members
or members of some other 'right thinking' inner party or 3 letter agency)
acually have freedom without prior licensing, supervision by, and permission
of, or approval from, the loving and oh-so-pure government?!

>are trying to tear down moral guardrails. Those who live on the shoulders
                         ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Thats what we need more of:  Attempts to legislate morality or control
same by fiat (morality being defined by those Who Know Best, or with the
wealth to hire the most guns, of course - 'special' folk are exempt, as
usual).

>are told by their pals that they are in the middle of the road. Nothing is
>wrong any more (except, of course, conservative thoughts and expressions).

Most Conservatives I know are strict Constitutionalists - they believe
the Constitution means what it says, the 'New, Improved, or Creative'
inerpretation to shoehorn it into some statist agenda not being regarded as
valid.  So, in that light, I take it you include yourself in that bunch
you describe that feel nothing is wrong but Conservative thoughts and
expressions.  Cuz you sure as hell ain't of the mindset that government
intrusion should be REDUCED as far as I can tell (at least as far as the
average person is concerned).  Just about every utterance advocates MORE
government intrusion or control (escrows, absolute trust in the integrity
and ethics of the STATE, etc).

Perhaps you should define this 'responsibility' you like to harp on.
Spell it out in your .sig.  Is it defined as "Freedom as long as Big
Brother says OK, and can watch over your shoulder at will"?  Or is it
"Freedom as long as you have enough money or connections and influence
to purchase it"?  Perhaps the Bill of Rights should have substituted
wherever it says "...the right..."  with "...the right (*after*
verification of 'need', resources, connections, responsibility, and
licensing and/or approval and registration by the STATE)..." And "...shall
make no law..." be substituted with "...shall make no law unless a Select
Committee or the President deems it expedient or to 'fix a problem'..."
And of course the words "shall not be infringed" should have appended
"unless we feel like it", and a different dictionary be used for each
and every Amendment, to 'adjust' the meaning as needed, so it is 'correct'.

And, of course, those of Modern Thinking(tm) know that the writers of the
Constitution and Bill of Rights were just kidding when they penned the
Ninth and Tenth Amendments...  they really had the relationships backwards
cuz they partied too much and were drunk with power...  Or it has a hidden
expiration date, and can be summarily decreed to be 'expired'...

Please show us where it says "Subject to responsibility as defined by
DS, the CFR, AMA, HCI, FBI, NSA, DEA, DIA, CIA, or other elitist/statist
persons or groups Who Know Best(tm)..." anywhere in the Constitution or
Bill of Rights.  I don't seem to find those references...

And if this offends you, DS, we are even:  Much of what you post offends
me deeply, too, including the .sig.  Perhaps it shold be censored, pending
demonstration of proper responsibility (not necessarily by YOUR metric).  I
take it from your .sig you would have no problem with that... you seem to
think that approach is OK if applied to OTHERS...

Another thing I see (not necessarily DS' baggage here, but that of some
of his adversaries) that is very hard to fathom are people/groups that
think that privacy is a protected and inalienable right, yet turn around
and think that the RKBA as protected by the Second Amendment, unlike
privacy, should be subject to approval by the STATE, or regluated out
of existance.  They apply grammatical interpretation to the structure
in the Second Amendment that would never be applied were the subject
matter different (and who ignore the writings of the people who wrote
and debated that Amendment when coming up with what it supposedly means).
Instead, a totally different metric is applied than is applied to the
parts of the BoR they agree with.

It is impossible to trust anybody or the organization they represent
who thinks its OK to ignore some parts of the BoR, but not others.
Either one believes in the Constitution or one does not - it is not a
pick and choose affair.  A process exists to chage portions one disagrees
with.  But until that occurs, the current one is in force, and our public
officials are sworn to uphold and defend it (and there are not a bunch of
provisos or exceptions in the oath).  And supporting the Constitution,
or amending it is NOT devising end-runs or simply ignoring those portions
(the method currently in fashion by our Government Who Loves Us So much and
Who Must Be Obeyed At All Times) one prefers didn't exist.

The gov't lead by one who is appealing for donations to his
sluts^H^H^H^H^Hslush fund.  Suggest instead that one donate to Paula
Jones' fund. But since the pro-Clipper Pres is the party involved, all this
is moral, by definition (New, Improved version)....

-- 
pat@rwing  [If all fails, try:  rwing!pat@eskimo.com]  Pat Myrto - Seattle WA
"No one has the right to destroy another person's belief by demanding
empirical evidence."  --   Ann Landers, nationally syndicated advice columnist
and Director at Handgun Control Inc.
