Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!swrinde!hopper.acm.org!ACM.ORG!KATZ
From: katz@ACM.ORG (JOE KATZ)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy,talk.politics.crypto
Subject: USACM Position
Date: 6 Jul 1994 19:44:08 GMT
Organization: ACM Network Services
Lines: 42
Message-ID: <2vf1i8$1se@hopper.acm.org>
Reply-To: katz@ACM.ORG
NNTP-Posting-Host: acm.org
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:29420 alt.privacy:16570 talk.politics.crypto:6422


This is posted on behalf of Stu Zweben, ACM President:

From:         Stu Zweben <zweben@CIS.OHIO-STATE.EDU>
Organization: The Ohio State University Dept. of Computer and Info. 
Science
Subject:      USACM position

If you read the press release carefully, you will see that the statement
urging the withdrawal of the Clipper was made by "the Association for
Computing Machinery's U.S. Public Policy Committee (USACM)".  It clearly
is not a misrepresentation.  ACM has a U.S. Public Policy Committee, and
its name is USACM.  It has this committee since ACM is an international
society.  USACM worries about issues involving U.S. public policy and
computing technology.

The ACM governing body (ACM Council) gave USACM its charter.  USACM has
the authority to take positions on issues; these are positions of USACM
(NOT positions of ACM, which would require approval of either the Coun-
cil
or the membership).  Thus, the statement is a position of USACM.  Though
not an official position of ACM, the statement resulted from due
consideration, by a group of duly appointed, respected computing
professionals, of the various aspects of the issues.  The USACM had seen
the cryptography panel's work.

The panel report itself did not make recommendations.  Its task was to
lay out the issues.  It did so, in what I believe is a clear, concise, 
and
balanced manner.  USACM then drew its own conclusions.

I really am proud that ACM convened this panel of experts, coming from
diverse perspectives on the issues.  The panel's report will be a most
useful document for further debate on this subject.

No doubt there are people who disagree with USACM's position.  This is
inevitable. I urge you to read the panel's report and draw your own
conclusions.  But don't accuse the USACM of improper action, nor of
misrepresenting itself.  I don't believe either is warranted.

Stu Zweben
ACM President
