Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!newsserver.jvnc.net!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: ritter@io.com (Terry Ritter)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Strength of DES
Date: 7 Jul 1994 13:38:51 -0500
Organization: UTexas Mail-to-News Gateway
Lines: 74
Sender: nobody@cs.utexas.edu
Message-ID: <199407071833.NAA11644@indial1.io.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: news.cs.utexas.edu

 In <2vfq1p$81@search01.news.aol.com> whmurray@aol.com (WHMurray)
 writes:


>The security of a crypto mechanism has at least as much as to do with the
>value and life of the data encrypted under a single key as it has to do
>with the strength of the primitive mechanism used.

 Actually, the "value" which influences attack is not its actual
 value, but rather the value as perceived by the attacker.  (If you
 have a broken VCR, a burglar may steal it anyway, if s/he does not
 know that it is broken.)

 The real issue is whether The Opponent has sufficient resources for
 the attack, and whether it is, for them, at the time, a reasonable
 use of those resources.  It doesn't even really have to be the most
 efficient attack, if the resources are bought but would otherwise
 remain unused.

 Confining a security analysis to the crypto user (that is, simply
 knowing the true value of the data a user has) thus produces an
 insufficient understanding of the overall security situation.


>In the
>presence of modern automated key management, the effective length of the
>key approaches the lenght of the data and the DES stands forever.

 It is certainly true that if one changes the DES key for every data
 block one has a much stronger cipher.  But "stands forever"?

 Even with a new key for every block, we have to question whether
 the resulting scheme (which is itself a cipher--a product cipher
 composed of DES and a key-generator) is secure.  Calling such a
 design "part of the system" merely hides the fact that a new
 cipher is being used, and may fail to expose the design to proper
 analysis _as_a_cipher_.

 While I would normally call "key management" part of the system,
 when this extends to producing key material which "approaches the
 length of the data," it is not really just "management" any more.


>Cryptanalysts have been telling us for centuries that attacks against the
>system are orders of magnitude more efficient than attacks against the
>primitive (see the Secrets of Ultra).

 Closer to home, PGP (the system) may not be secure, even if the
 ciphers in PGP actually are.  Perhaps Mr. Murray will favor us with
 some insightful comments on this topic.


>I do not care how low your estimate of the current cost of attack against
>the DES. (Well, I do need them, so keep doing them.)  However, as long as
>I know what it is, I can use the DES in a way that is secure for my
>application.

 Unfortunately, what we really have are the work values for current
 known attacks, and not provably the least-work-attack value.  It is
 not at all unreasonable that, as experimenters obtain increasingly
 more powerful computation machines, they may explore attacks which
 turn out to be effective against DES.  This is a side-effect of the
 problem of using a 20-year-old primitive to resist exponentially
 increasing computational capability.

 The point is that present-day knowledge will not necessarily provide
 sufficient information to design a system which is intended to be
 secure into the future.  One way to minimize the possibility of an
 effective future attack is to use a much stronger primitive.

 ---
 Terry Ritter   ritter@io.com


