Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!swrinde!cs.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: ritter@io.com (Terry Ritter)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Strength of DES
Date: 9 Jul 1994 22:06:36 -0500
Organization: UTexas Mail-to-News Gateway
Lines: 37
Sender: nobody@cs.utexas.edu
Message-ID: <199407100301.WAA03324@indial1.io.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: news.cs.utexas.edu

 In <2vil95$l75@search01.news.aol.com> whmurray@aol.com (WHMurray)
 writes:

>My fundamental assumption is that a modern nation
>state can read anything that it wants, at least at some price.  On the
>other hand, they cannot read everything that they want.

 I'm not sure what is meant by "read."  I would assume that a "modern
 nation state" may well have agents who can coerce and intimidate to
 gain information, but such action may well have consequences.  So
 let's neglect such activities for now.

 There are many ciphers which are intended to be pretty secure but
 also very fast and inexpensive to use; these provide protection
 where there otherwise would be none.  Such ciphers could be "read"
 given sufficient computation.  (A well-designed cipher will require
 the frequent re-application of such computation, so "reading" would
 _not_ be a one-time cost.)

 On the other hand, there are other ciphers which are specifically
 intended to be sufficiently strong that they simply cannot be
 attacked successfully.  These ciphers are intended to demand
 computation many orders of magnitude beyond any currently-achievable
 computational machinery, independent of what any "modern nation
 state" may want or fund.

 In a sense, cryptography wishes to challenge Mr. Murray's
 "fundamental assumption."  It is, of course, a conservative approach
 to disbelieve representations of high strength.  But it is not
 reasonable to equate such disbelief with equality of strength in
 the two classes of cipher.  Unfortunately, DES is now in the
 attackable class, and is not particularly fast either.

 ---
 Terry Ritter   ritter@io.com


