Path: msuinfo!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!aixssc.uk.ibm.com!watnews.watson.ibm.com!locutus.rchland.ibm.com!wo0z.rchland.ibm.com!lwloen
From: lwloen@wo0z.rchland.ibm.com (Larry Loen)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy,talk.politics.crypto
Subject: Re: USACM Position
Date: 9 Jul 1994 23:10:58 GMT
Organization: IBM Rochester MN
Lines: 47
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2vnaq2$h71@locutus.rchland.ibm.com>
References: <2vf1i8$1se@hopper.acm.org> <strnlghtCsL52n.Hn1@netcom.com>
Reply-To: lwloen@rchland.vnet.ibm.com
NNTP-Posting-Host: wo0z.rchland.ibm.com
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:29541 alt.privacy:16675 talk.politics.crypto:6513

[brief quoting of ACM president, followed by more complaints
 by Mr. Sternlight deleted]

I think we got exactly what we were entitled to, if not more, from
the ACM.

So far as I know, only you and I were confused in any way by the 
USACM description, some of which may be from the poster who created
the headline (presuming he is not a USACM member and created the
headline).

The ACM President is not obligated to explain every cottin' pickin'
decision to Internet.  The USACM name appears to be (as I suspected)
of long standing.  There might not even be a fancy explanation
(someone 15 years ago said, "Hey, USACM sounds good; the French call
their public policy committee FACM").  "US" is in front of many things;
I don't assume "USAir" speaks for the airline industry and had it not
been for your charges, I would not have assumed USACM spoke for ACM.

As for the rest, it sound even more like sour grapes.  If you would
really like to score some points on Internet with your critics, you
could actually admit your charges are incorrect.  I don't know if the
ACM president's statements exactly correlated with my earlier speculations,
but it sure came out about right.  Things were, as it happened, going
exactly as they should.

I also think your complaints about "monolithic" border on the silly.
An organization may or may not call attention to the fact that a given
vote that produced report X was unanimous or not.  It may or may not
point out the existence of some form of minority report.  One assumes
that the public has an IQ over 50 when reading a report of this kind.

Most of us are quite capable of reading between the lines; to wit, the
committee, as a group, came to a vote and approved the press release
as the group's positions.  Probably someone, somewhere voted against it.

Your charges were premature and groundless.  Your requests for further
"clarifications" in your favor merely reveal that you don't like the
vote.  So noted.  The rest is in the bit bucket.  Your charges against
individuals in the future will be measured by this observer with much
reduced credibility.

-- 
   Larry W. Loen        |  My Opinions are decidedly my own, so please
                        |  do not attribute them to my employer

   email to:  lwloen@rchland.vnet.ibm.com
