Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!lll-winken.llnl.gov!overload.lbl.gov!agate!soda.berkeley.edu!remailer
From: nobody@shell.portal.com
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto,alt.fan.david-sternlight
Subject: "Conservative thoughts and expressions"
Date: 11 Jul 1994 04:11:04 GMT
Organization: Cypherpunks
Lines: 46
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2vqgoo$3rc@agate.berkeley.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: soda.berkeley.edu
Originator: remailer@soda.berkeley.edu
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:29547 talk.politics.crypto:6518 alt.fan.david-sternlight:1260


strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) wrote:
 
> The values that define our common-sense world are under assault. Some have
> taken to extremes the spurious notion of freedom without responsibility, and
> are trying to tear down moral guardrails. Those who live on the shoulders
> are told by their pals that they are in the middle of the road. Nothing is
> wrong any more (except, of course, conservative thoughts and expressions).

Interesting how this defense of "conservative" thoughts and expressions 
just happens to coincide with the concept, currently embraced by so-called 
LIBERALS, of a "benevolent dictator", "Big Brother" government that will 
tell us how to act and think in a politically correct manner -- "for our 
own good", naturally.  Very little in current "conservative thoughts and 
expressions" acknowledges any "right" on the part of Bill Clinton and his 
political cronies to have a monopoly on cryptographic technology, nor any 
"right" to read or listen to our private communications.  Bear in mind, 
this is the same Bill Clinton who saw fit to defy Federal and state laws 
forbidding the possession and use of marijuana, whether inhaled or not.  As 
I recall, it was considered a felony back then. This is hardly the 
requisite "moral high ground" for lecturing others on the virtues of 
obeying laws "because they're there".

One wonders whether Mr. Sternlight would have embraced, or scoffed at, the 
highly ILLEGAL revolution against British law that gave us the basis for 
our present form of government. As far as I know, the colonists did NOT 
lobby for a bill in Parliament to legalize armed insurrections prior to 
rebelling against King George III.  Nor was the Boston Tea Party permitted 
by any known British law.
 
Reread your own statement, and address how it applies to those on the LEFT 
"shoulder" of idealogy and politics, while claiming to be in the "middle of 
the road".  In the space of one generation, the liberals have adopted and 
found to be useful many of the same things that they denounced when 
practiced by their "conservative" predecessors, including wiretaps and 
worldwide military adventurism.  Also, don't commit the error of confusing 
"political correctness" with "common sense".  Else, logically, those who 
break laws are not criminals, but merely "ethically challenged". What 
objective "moral guardrail" exists against the use of crypto?  One wonders 
what the world might be like if certain inventions, like the WHEEL, for 
example, had been considered "munitions" and forbidden to be "exported".

--------
For information about this Usenet posting service, send mail to
remailer@soda.berkeley.edu, with Subject: remailer-info.
Please, don't throw knives.
