Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!uhog.mit.edu!grapevine.lcs.mit.edu!rosario
From: rosario@theory.lcs.mit.edu (Rosario Gennaro)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Questions about conditional access for Pay-TV
Date: 11 Jul 1994 15:50:15 GMT
Organization: Laboratory for Computer Science, MIT
Lines: 49
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2vrpnn$jeb@GRAPEVINE.LCS.MIT.EDU>
NNTP-Posting-Host: emu.lcs.mit.edu

Hello everybody

lately I have been interested in the condtional access problem 
for encrypted broadcasted signal (like for example Pay-TV). 
The problem can be stated as following. A center broadcasts
an encrypted signal to an universe of users U and only a selected 
subset S of the users must be able to decrypt it. 

There was a paper a couple of years ago at the CRYPTO conference 
entitled "Broadcasting Encryption" which deals with this problem. 
They solve it by giving each user a decoder box with a set of keys 
in it, and then the center broadcasts the identity of the subset S 
and the message encrypted with a key $k$. By knowing the identity of S
only the users in the set S will be able to compute the key $k$ 
from the keys in their possession. However this is not the kind of
scheme I am interestd in (it has 2 majors drawbacks: the set U is 
somewhat fixed at the beginning when the decoder boxes are manifactured, 
and everybody knows who is in the selected set S)

I know that there are schemes that uses a combination of decoder 
boxes and smart cards. Every user can get a decoder box. But the
decoder box by itself would not decrypt the message. TO decrypt the
message the user needs a special smart card that will enable the
decoder box to work. This is the kind of scheme I am interested on. 
I have been trying to find reference (like books or technical papers)
dealing with the subject but I have been having little luck. Can anybody
help me with this?  

I am not interested in what kind of encryption algorithm is used, but rather
in what protocol is employed by the smart card to enable the work of
the decoder box. 

Also I am interested in what kind of security properties 
are requested by this kind of schemes (i.e. it should not allow 2 users 
to decrypt the message at the same time using only one entitlement/smartcard, 
or if someone manages to read the information in a card and start 
manifacturing pirate smart cards it should be possible to track him/her down 
from looking at the pirate smart-cards etc etc) 

Thanks a lot
		Rosario Gennaro

--
Rosario Gennaro                     Laboratory for Computer Science      
rosario@theory.lcs.mit.edu          Massachusetts Institute of Technology
gennaro@athena.mit.edu              Cambridge MA 02139

  "... la tua loquela ti fa manifesto di quella nobil patria natio ..."
                                          Inf. X
