Path: msuinfo!agate!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!swrinde!news.dell.com!tadpole.com!uunet!bounce-back
From: pgut1@cs.aukuni.ac.nz (Peter Gutmann)
Newsgroups: news.announce.newgroups,news.groups,sci.crypt,comp.security.misc,alt.security
Subject: RFD: sci.crypt.research moderated
Followup-To: news.groups
Date: 11 Jul 1994 23:39:11 -0400
Organization: University of Auckland
Lines: 52
Sender: tale@uunet.uu.net
Approved: tale@uunet.uu.net
Message-ID: <2vt38v$oo3@rodan.UU.NET>
Xref: msuinfo news.announce.newgroups:5108 news.groups:108108 sci.crypt:29581 comp.security.misc:10681 alt.security:17594

This is a request for discussion for the creation of:
 
Newsgroup: sci.crypt.research
Charter:   The discussion of cryptology, cryptanalysis, and related issues, in
           a more civilised environment than is currently provided by
           sci.crypt.
Status:    Moderated (multiple moderators)
 
If after 30 days it has been determined that a new group is really desired, a
call for votes will be posted, with votes being recorded by a neutral third
party
 
Background and Rationale:
 
There have been a number of complaints in the past about the poor signal/noise
ration of sci.crypt, leading to an RFD for a moderated version maybe a year ago
which was abandoned due to lack of agreement on the name, charter, and just
about everything else, and an attempt at another RFD some time afterwards.
This is yet another attempt to provide for the creation of a forum with a lower
volume and higher quality of information than what is currently available in
sci.crypt.
 
Responses to the first RFD indicated that a number of crypto researchers who at
one time provided a great deal of useful input to sci.crypt had abandoned the
group entirely because any useful material was buried in a large amount of
noise.  It is hoped that the creation of a moderated group will encourage more
active debate on cryptographic research than currently takes place in
sci.crypt, while still allowing endless debates on Clipper, arguments about RSA
patents, and "can you break this" postings in the original group.
 
Moderation:
 
The group would be moderated by a number of independant moderators situated all
over the world.  This is not only advantageous (it means there's always someone
available in some time zone to respond to posts), but downright necessary due
to the peculiar restrictions placed on the dissemination of cryptographic
knowledge by the US government.  If necessary, the articles can still be posted
to sci.crypt - since a moderator doesn't select the articles which appear
there, they are not responsible for them either (or their export from the US).
However this "exporting" of postings in sci.crypt has never been an issue in
the past, and it seems unlikely to be a real problem in sci.crypt.research.
 
The selection of moderators is one issue to be resolved by this RFD.  One idea
is to allow a set number of moderators (say, 5 or 10) which would be voted on
as part of the group creation voting process, with everyone allowed to vote for
their preferred 5 or so moderators - assuming that that many people actually
volunteer for the job.  Currently there are 5 volunteers, if each of them (and
anyone else who'd like to volunteer) could write a few sentences about
themselves and either post them as a followup or send them to me, I'll collect
them all and post the list in a week or so.
 
Peter.
