Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!swrinde!news.dell.com!tadpole.com!uunet!shemesh.tis.com!balenson
From: balenson@tis.com (David M. Balenson)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy,alt.security,alt.security.pgp,alt.security.ripem,comp.protocols.kerberos,comp.protocols.tcp-ip,comp.security.misc,comp.security.unix,ieee.announce
Subject: 2nd CFP: ISOC Symposium on Network and Distributed System Security
Date: 13 Jul 1994 04:33:12 GMT
Organization: Trusted Information Systems, Inc.
Lines: 126
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2vvqq8$q6i@shemesh.tis.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: sol
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:29620 alt.privacy:16735 alt.security:17621 alt.security.pgp:17410 alt.security.ripem:1012 comp.protocols.kerberos:3230 comp.protocols.tcp-ip:34037 comp.security.misc:10690 comp.security.unix:6945 ieee.announce:263

                             CALL FOR PAPERS
                    The Internet Society Symposium on
                 Network and Distributed System Security

        16-17 February 1995, Catamaran Hotel, San Diego, California

GOAL: The symposium will bring together people who are building
software and/or hardware to provide network and distributed system
security services.  The symposium is intended for those interested in
the more practical aspects of network and distributed system security,
focusing on actual system design and implementation, rather than in
theory.  We hope to foster the exchange of technical information that
will encourage and enable the Internet community to apply, deploy and
advance the state of the available security technology.  Symposium
proceedings will be published by the Internet Society.  Topics for the
symposium include, but are not limited to, the following:

*  Design and implementation of security services -- access control,
   authentication, availability, confidentiality, integrity, and
   non-repudiation.

*  Design and implementation of security mechanisms and support
   services -- encipherment, authentication, and key management
   systems, including fair cryptography -- access control,
   authorization and audit systems -- and intrusion detection systems.

*  Requirements and designs for securing distributed applications
   and network functions -- message handling, file transport, remote
   file access, directories, time synchronization, interactive
   sessions, remote data base management and access, routing, voice and
   video multicast and conferencing, news groups, network management,
   boot services, mobile computing, and remote I/O.

*  Requirements and designs for securing networked information
   resources and tools -- Archie servers, the Wide Area Information
   Servers (WAIS), the Internet Gopher, and the WorldWide Web (WWW).

*  Design and implementation of measures for controlling internetwork
   communication and services in a coherent manner -- firewalls, packet
   filters, application gateways, and user/host authentication
   schemes.

*  Requirements and designs for telecommunications security especially
   for emerging technologies -- very large systems like the
   international Internet, high-speed systems like the gigabit
   testbeds, wireless systems, and personal communication systems.

*  Special issues and problems in security architecture, such as
   interplay between security goals and other goals -- efficiency,
   reliability, interoperability, resource sharing, and cost.

GENERAL CHAIR:
   Jim Ellis, CERT Coordination Center

PROGRAM CHAIRS:
   David Balenson, Trusted Information Systems
   Rob Shirey, The MITRE Corporation

PROGRAM COMMITTEE:
   Tom Berson, Anagram Laboratories
   Matt Bishop, University of California at Davis
   Ravi Ganesan, Bell Atlantic
   Burt Kaliski, RSA Laboratories
   Steve Kent, BBN Communications
   Paul Lambert, Motorola
   John Linn, OpenVision Technologies
   Clifford Neuman, Information Sciences Institute
   Hilarie Orman, University of Arizona
   Michael Roe, Cambridge University (UK)
   Rob Rosenthal, U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology
   Jeff Schiller, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
   Mike St. Johns, Advanced Research Projects Agency
   Peter Yee, U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration
   Roberto Zamparo, Telia Research (Sweden)

SUBMISSIONS:  The committee invites both technical papers and
proposals for panel discussions on technical and other topics of
general interest.  Technical papers should be 10-20 pages in length.
Panel proposals should be two pages in length, and should describe the
panel topic, name the panel chair, explain the format of the panel, and
list three to four potential panelists.  The technical papers will
appear in the proceedings.  Panel chairs and panelists will have the
option of having written statements appear in the proceedings.

All submissions should contain a separate title page which includes the
type of submission (paper or panel), the title or topic, the names of
the author(s), organizational affiliation(s), telephone and FAX
numbers, postal addresses, Internet electronic mail addresses, and the
point of contact, if more than one author.  Since the review process
will be anonymous, the author's names, affiliations and other
information should appear only on the separate title page.

        Deadline for paper submission:      August 15, 1994
        Notification sent to authors by:    October 17, 1994
        Deadline for camera-ready copy:     November 15, 1994

Submissions must be made by 15 August 1994.  Submissions should be made
via electronic mail.  Submissions may be in either of two formats:
PostScript or ASCII.  If the committee is unable to print a PostScript
submission, it will be returned and ASCII requested.  Therefore,
PostScript submissions should arrive well before 15 August.  If
electronic submission is absolutely impossible, submissions should be
sent via postal mail.

All submissions and other correspondence should be directed to the
Program Co-Chair:

                   David M. Balenson
		   Trusted Information Systems, Inc.
                   3060 Washington Road (Rt. 97)
                   Glenwood, Maryland 21738 USA
		   Phone: 301-854-6889
		   FAX:   301-854-5363
		   Email: balenson@tis.com

Each submission will be acknowledged through the medium by which it is
received.  If acknowledgment is not received within seven days, please
contact the Program Co-Chair as indicated above.  Authors and panelists
will be notified of acceptance by 17 October 1994.  Instructions for
preparing camera-ready copy for the proceedings will be postal mailed
at that time.  The camera-ready copy must be received by 15 November
1994.

-----
-- 
David M Balenson
