Path: msuinfo!agate!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!swrinde!news.dell.com!tadpole.com!uunet!senior.nectec.or.th!rosebud!com!wov!john.dehaven
From: john.dehaven@wov.com (john dehaven)
Date: 13 Jul 94 14:51:01 +0700
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Idea for Stream Cry 1/2
Message-ID: <f38_9407131936@rosebud.bbs.or.th>
X-Mail-Agent: GIGO+ sn 80 at rosebud vsn 0.99 pl1
X-FTN-To: Adam Thornton
Organization: Pubnet - Bangkok, Thailand
Lines: 47

 AT> Second, a true random number source is necessary; amplifier noise,
 AT> radioactive decay, or atmospheric noise are all reasonable methods for
 AT> producing random bits.  The important thing is that the random number
 AT> generator must generate a random sequence--probably based on
 AT> environmental phenomena--rather than a pseudorandom sequence.

Ah!  There it is again!  So, just what _is_ this "atmospheric
noise?"  Tom Clancy notwithstanding, I can't think of any
attribute of the "atmosphere" that I could rely on as a source
of true-random noise.  The physical atmosphere is hopelessly
contaminated with non-random acoustic noise.  The radio
"atmosphere" is loaded from end-to-end with non-random signals,
notably the very intense VLF power-line related signals, but not
excluding the non-random stuff emitted by your computer.  When
you tune the random-sounding hiss between stations, how do you
KNOW there isn't some non-random component deep within that, or
that from time to time some creeps in?  For that matter, how
much of that hiss originates in the "atmosphere" and how much in
the front-end of the reciever?

Perhaps there is something useful that is meant by "atmospheric
noise."  Anyone who knows, please enlighten me about this.

And as to "amplifier noise" this is very low-level stuff, and
often high-Z on top of it.  You would need to go to
extraordinary lengths to be sure you are not getting some
non-random RFI mixed in.  "Psychic researchers" are still
selling books about how you can record fragments of "Voices From
The Beyond" by running a tape recorder with no microphone and
the gain all the way up!  :-) :-) :-)

It is not easy, this true-random-noise stuff; especially being
reasonably SURE about it!

YO!  I just had a flash!  It has been asserted that the output
of excellent crypto is indistinguishible from noise (unless you
have the means to read it, of course.)  So, then why not collect
the excellent cryptographic traffic that others generate and use
THAT for "random data?"  Even neater: it is "random data" with
some other message traffic in it according to some scheme.
Maybe the analysts would break that other traffic by accident
instead of yours.  (Just kidding guys, but I couldn't help it. :-)


--
Email: john.dehaven@wov.com
Another War on Virus subscriber - my views are my own.
