Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!sdd.hp.com!think.com!news!rlk
From: rlk@underprize.think.com (Robert Krawitz)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto,alt.fan.david-sternlight
Subject: Re: "Conservative thoughts and expressions"
Date: 14 Jul 94 17:08:01
Organization: Thinking Machines Corporation, Cambridge Mass., USA
Lines: 58
Message-ID: <RLK.94Jul14170801@underprize.think.com>
References: <2vqgoo$3rc@agate.berkeley.edu> <strnlghtCssCCz.43@netcom.com>
	<2vtgc1$cnj@sundog.tiac.net> <strnlghtCstpKA.6JC@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: underprize.think.com
In-reply-to: strnlght@netcom.com's message of Tue, 12 Jul 1994 10:38:33 GMT
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:29670 talk.politics.crypto:6575 alt.fan.david-sternlight:1273

In article <strnlghtCstpKA.6JC@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:

   Nice try but you forget the .sig lines on that message extolling the virtues
   of anonymous posting, so to speak, and offering the service.

Well, the .sig line is a bit of a red herring, since it's not under
control of the user, but...

   Something that's blatantly anonymous isn't the same as someone providing a
   persona that's actually invented. We take some things on good faith in life,
   including a "From" line that's not obviously bogus. Taking such things on
   faith isn't the same as responding to an overtly anonymous poster. You are
   SURE the anonymous poster is concealing his identity, for whatever reason,
   but most posters here who use names or userids are what they seem--honest
   people with honest identities.

There is also the distinction between anonymity and pseudonymity.  Most
of the "anonymous" posting services (anon.penet.fi, for instance) are
really pseudonymous posting services, since each poster is assigned an
identifying number.  But there's still identification -- an1000 is
distinguishable from an999, even though neither is using a "human" name,
so it's possible to know, in a sense, who the posting is coming from
(the fact that you call yourself "David Sternlight" rather than "an1000"
means little to me -- either of these is just a handle that gives no
real information as to "who" you are, but it does identify you, to the
extent that I trust the ID, as a unique individual).  The anon.penet.fi
service erases superficial identification such as real name, username,
signature, and organization, but surely at least some of these
(signature, real name, and organization) are not part of network
identity -- these are transient items that anyone can erase.  As for
username, I could go to AOL, for example, and get an account with a
completely random name, and never post where I lived.  Would that be any
less "anonymous" than an1000@anon.penet.fi?

"nobody@shell.portal.com", on the other hand, is truly anonymous --
there is no way (if I understand it correctly) of knowing who is posting
(many people post, one address comes out).  I fully understand why you
have no truck with anonymity of that sort

   Putting it another way, you behave differently with respect to a masked man
   coming into a bank than you might to someone who MIGHT have had plastic
   surgery. :-)

But if you're playing basketball, does it matter to you if the members
of the other team just have numbers on their backs or if they are
wearing both numbers and names?  You can still identify them as
individuals.

It is comforting to have a "real" name for someone, I suppose.  But
what's the definition of someone's "real" name?  How would you respond
to a pseudonymous posting service that permitted people to pick handles
of their choosing, rather than assigning serial numbers?
--
Robert Krawitz <rlk@think.com>	OS/IO Software Engineer	(617)234-2116
Thinking Machines Corp.		245 First St.	 Cambridge, MA  02142

Member of the League for Programming Freedom -- mail lpf@uunet.uu.net
Tall Clubs International  --  tci-request@think.com or 1-800-521-2512
