Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!nic-nac.CSU.net!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!yeshua.marcam.com!MathWorks.Com!news2.near.net!yale!news.wesleyan.edu!eagle.wesleyan.edu!ckylin
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Help!
Message-ID: <1994Jul15.235419.1@eagle.wesleyan.edu>
From: ckylin@eagle.wesleyan.edu
Date: 15 Jul 94 23:54:19 EDT
Nntp-Posting-Host: wesleyan.edu
Lines: 109



I've run into a real-life puzzle of a cryptalogocial nature, perhaps someone
would like to take a crack at it.

        I am a graduate student at Wesleyan University, and I'm looking into
the history of the college, and I've run across a problem. I have five names
very much worthwhile to find out who these people were. Figuring out who these
people were shouldn't be too difficult, because there are only a limited number
of students who could possibly fit the encodings.

These are the codes as they appear on the page:


11     12     6 1/4  37     27     54     10.

66     14     67     5 1/4  30.

35     6 1/2  27     63     15     41    100.

28     54     66     25     15     36     53     40.

53     27     52     37     45     64    3000.


        There are two 1/4's and one 1/2, these are written over each other as
fractions in the usual way. There are periods at the end of each line
indicating that one proceeds horizontally and stop at the end, and have the
name; this also would have been customary, to simply print names of members of
an organization in the college annual. However, in this case, evidentally they
wanted to keep the member's names secret.

        There are only a limited number of possible names that could have been
used. (It was a small college.) We'll call them the A-list and the B-list, and
if any one name comes from the A-list, then all the names should come from the
A-list, likewise with the B-list.

A-list:

Albert M. Bigelow
William H. Burns
John H. Chapman
John H. Chruchill
R. Newton Crane
George O. Cummins
Edward Cunningham
Joseph A. Dilks
Melville C. Elliott
John R. Farnum
David B. Furber
Frederic T. Glover
Henry D. Harrower
Emory J. Haynes
Eugene R. Hendrix
Robert Lauder
Charles E. Mandeville
Henry C. Michener
Charles W. Millard
William F. Morris
William A. Munson
Charles R. North
D. Ward Northrop
Wilbur F. Sanford
Henry B. Terry
Samuel H. Trowbridge
Homer Weston
Horace R. Williams



and the B-list:
Larmon R. Abbott
Osmin Atkins
George G. Bush
George C. Carpenter
Henry T. Eddy
Reese B. Gwillim
Warren L. Hoagland
Charles P. Mather
Henry R. Morrill
Augustus F. Nightingale
Stephen H. Olin
George C. Round
Herbert J. Stevens
Henry A. Strong
Alexander H. Tuttle
Granville Yager


        The names may have been encoded as simply the last name, the first
initial and last name, or both initials. Perhaps the names are beackwards, or
the last letter of the last name,...etc...etc...
        It's clearly not a simple substitution cipher. I am not sure what else
it may be.

        WARNING: There was a cryptologist on the campus at that time, George H.
Stone, who may have been involved (in fact, his name should be added to both
lists). He had previously gained fame as the man who broke the Confederate
cipher during the civil war---the "Frederika Bremer" cipher. Therefore, this
too may possibly be a keyword cipher.

        If you can break the code, please contact me. (ckylin @
eagle.wesleyan.edu) If you can tell me how a keyword cipher works, please tell
me. If you can tell me anything about how to solve this, please do so.

        Thanks a lot for your assistance. I hope the chance to work on a
puzzle like this is properly challenging.


