Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!senator-bedfellow.mit.edu!athena.mit.edu!pshuang
From: pshuang@athena.mit.edu (Ping Huang)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Subject: Re: Phill Zimmermann Reply
Date: 18 Jul 1994 13:29:57 GMT
Organization: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Lines: 43
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <PSHUANG.94Jul18092957@cartoon.mit.edu>
References: <2E24ACB2.28687@c3.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: cartoon.mit.edu
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:29778 alt.security.pgp:17621

In article <2E24ACB2.28687@c3.com> trollins@c3.com (Tom Rollins) writes:

 > I am a little confused about this statement. The following (2)
 > paragraphs came from the a pgp.c source file.  So, I don't see
 > that my small changes can damage your reputation.

If you do not see how a program released with the name PGP which may
cause interoperability or security problems can damage the reputation
of PGP (and by extension, Phil Zimmermann), then I am led to believe
that you are being deliberately obtuse in this respect.  Reputation
matters to many people, even if you choose not to understand this.

 > I believe that you have released the pgp software under the Free
 > Software Foundation "Copyleft" License.
	[....]
 > I believe that you may by misinformed.  I hope that I have made my
 > position clear. You relesased the pgp program under the "Copyleft"
 > License. I have the right to change the software or use pieced of it.
 > I am protected from you trying to deny me those rights.

My understanding is that the "Copyleft" license does *NOT* give you
all rights to reuse product trademarks, names, manuals, additional
materials, etc.  It gives you the right to reuse the *SOURCE CODE*
under certain conditions as outlined by the terms.  The paragraphs of
the Copyleft which you quote make this pretty clear, IMO.  Call it
anything else you want which does not infringe on the PGP trademark
and the Copyleft should cover you.  But don't try to mix the
Copyleft's provisions with trademarks.

It seems to me that when a software package is released under a
Copyleft, it is a choice by the author to donate (restricted) use of
the source code to the community.  I am not naive enough to believe
that all software provided under the Copyleft has been "donated"
because of snow-white pure altruism.  Nevertheless, you seem to feel
that because Phil has chosen to donate part of PGP once that you have
the right to claim something else that he has not chosen to donate,
and I disagree that you have the right to make this claim.

Disclaimer: I possess only an intelligent layman's understanding of
trademarks, copyrights, patents, contract law, etc.
--
Ping Huang (INTERNET: pshuang@mit.edu), probably speaking for himself

