Path: msuinfo!agate!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!swrinde!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!news.kei.com!news.byu.edu!news.mtholyoke.edu!news.amherst.edu!not-for-mail
From: tjbryce@unix.amherst.edu (Tom Bryce)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Variants of DES
Date: 19 Jul 1994 11:27:13 -0400
Organization: Amherst College, Amherst MA, USA
Lines: 34
Message-ID: <30grch$580@amhux3.amherst.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: amhux3.amherst.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL0]

Does it strengthen the encryption to use DES twice on a given plaintext
that is, encrypt the ciphertext with a different DES key? And how difficult
is it to recover the plaintext or key of a file encrypted plain and simple
in ECB mode with a 56 bit DES key, 16 rounds? And if it were fewer rounds,
like 8 or 12? I suppose a monetary figure would be a good way to describe
the difficulty. If someone had 50 megabytes of ciphertext, maybe a little 
bit of known plaintext, encrypted ECB on a 56 bit des key, 16 rounds,
could they break it with $100,000? $250,000? Any ideas? 

ULTRASECURE offers a double-des option, encrypting macintosh data twice on
two different keys. It's better than curve encrypt in that it works 
transparently, always keeping the contents of a given folder, etc., 
invisibly encrypted, with user entering key once and it works in background
thereafter. I think the FAQ said encrypting twice on two different keys 
does not increase protection, but I wasn't sure I was reading it right.

I posted yesterday a question about DES drive protection for the macintosh.
Someone said norton's DISKLOCK had bulletproof driver password protection,
but in fact the MacWorld article (I believe it was June 93... dont quote me)
listed Disklock as "all features broken except encryption". In fact, any
protection feature of any product should clearly be considered easily
bustable by those with the knowledge to do so, except for encryption. Enough
said.

I'm disturbed by how easy it seems to break DES. I'm sure the products I'm
looking at don't compress data before it's encrypted, and they won't tell me
their key management schemes over the phone, saying it's proprietary. It's
enough to get me to forget these darn packages and just use curve encrypt
and macpgp. 

Or I could, of course, try to run securedrive on an ms-dos partition with my
ms-dos emulation software. Would this work, I wonder?

Tom
