Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!swrinde!emory!rsiatl!jgd
From: jgd@dixie.com (John De Armond)
Subject: Re: Phill Zimmermann Reply
Message-ID: <8-k8fmn@dixie.com>
Date: Wed, 20 Jul 94 02:43:03 GMT
Organization: Dixie Communications Public Access.  The Mouth of the South.
References: <ian.774581672@bvsd.k12.co.us>
Lines: 50
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:29851 alt.security.pgp:17691

ian@bvsd.k12.co.us (Ian S. Nelson) writes:

>Wasn't this version in question called 3DEA-PGP?  Or something like that.
>It did have a different name.  It also had information inside the archive that
>pointed out what it was and it also was found in a directory called "variants"
>under a pgp directory.  
>The idea of Phil expecting us to follow the rules of his trademarks are 
>totally hypocritical (There is also the issue of respect for Phil vs. the
>respect of the law) when he broke similar rules to get this trademark.
>I think it would be wrong and dangerous if someone was trying to distribute
>3dea-pgp as PGP2.6, but this wasn't the case.  
>Even if it was, the enhancements to it are options you have to apply.

>I don't think this is nearly as serious as it is being made out to be.

Of course not.  This isn't just software, it is a religion and zimmerman
is god.  What you're seeing is nothing more than the high priests of
zimmerism screaming because someone dare challenge their deity.

A few points:

Zimmerman has no trademark because he did not register it and could not
register it because he has not used the trademark in interstate commerce
and because he has used it as a noun instead of an adjective.  (The 
proper way to use a trademark is to describe the product as
"PGP encryption program" instead of "PGP".)

Zimmerman doesn't get to wrap himself in the glowing mantle of GNUish
free software on one hand and get to maintain commercial-like control
over the use of the software on the other.  Just doesn't work that way.

As you observed, the modified version of PGP was clearly identified as
a derivative work, in the name, in the software itself and in the doc 
file.

Finally, like you, I marvel that Phil would steal a patented
algorithm and use it in an intentional and flagrantly infringing manner on
one hand, and then squeal like a cut monkey on the other when someone
completely legitimately modifies his free software.  Perhaps not so
amazing.   After all, no honor among thieves. I personally have no
problem either with phil's infringing a bad patent or the modifications.
A little less crying would be nice, though.

John

-- 
John De Armond, WD4OQC, Marietta, GA    jgd@dixie.com 
Performance Engineering Magazine.  Email to me published at my sole discretion
Respect the VietNam Vet, for he has survived every attempt by this country
to kill him.
