Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!dsinc!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: ritter@io.com (Terry Ritter)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Non-RSA Public Key Algorithms Wanted
Date: 20 Jul 1994 14:52:48 -0500
Organization: UTexas Mail-to-News Gateway
Lines: 36
Sender: nobody@cs.utexas.edu
Message-ID: <199407201952.OAA09280@pentagon.io.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: news.cs.utexas.edu

 In <30jhmh$b7s@gap.cco.caltech.edu>
 hal@alumni.caltech.edu (Hal Finney) writes:

>Isn't it the case that if we can find random elements with short cycles,
>we can factor n?  A short cycle has a 50-50 chance of revealing two dif-
>ferent square roots of a number (the one which preceded the cycle, and the
>one which looped back) which lets us factor n.  So short cycles aren't a
>problem?

 I find this an odd argument.  Wouldn't it be better phrased as:
 "It is occasionally easy to factor casually-constructed composites."
 The issue is the value of "occasionally."

 First of all, short cycles, by definition, include few states.
 Thus, if short cycles are infrequent, a random selection by state
 is unlikely to find states on a short cycle.  But "unlikely" is not
 the same as "proven impossible," and being able to find such a cycle
 at will is not the same as having such cycles appear occasionally
 (and dangerously) in actual use.

 Even worse, "short" is in the eye of the beholder.  Unless we know
 just *how* short the cycle is, finding the length of a random cycle
 could take a great deal of effort, and if it is not "short," the
 effort is wasted.  It may be that this is not a factoring approach
 with a good expectation of success.  On the other hand, as far as
 I know, the factoring problem usually deals with random values, and
 not simple two-factor composites.  Maybe the approach could be
 useful in this particular environment.

 But if the desire is to have a "provably secure" RNG, the possible
 use of short cycles pretty much has to be "a problem."

 ---
 Terry Ritter   ritter@io.com


