Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!ames!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!usc!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!yeshua.marcam.com!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!csusac!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: Macintosh DES drive protection
Message-ID: <strnlghtCt9Bys.B4p@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <30e8d2$9th@amhux3.amherst.edu> <strnlghtCt5Lwy.Gu8@netcom.com> <1994Jul19.131849.24618@cs.cornell.edu>
Date: Wed, 20 Jul 1994 21:06:28 GMT
Lines: 52

In article <1994Jul19.131849.24618@cs.cornell.edu>,
Michael G. Reed <Reed@ACM.Org> wrote:
>
>This is blatantly NOT true.  Just because the SCSI drivers are not available
>to the machine (either because the drive was not powered on at boot time, or
>you failed to enter the correct password) does not mean the drive is
>unavailable to probing.  Anyone who tells you the contrary does not know what
>they are talking about.  You do not need access to the SCSI drivers to issue
>raw SCSI commands to the drive (this is trivial for someone with a little
>programming experience, and IM-4 or NIM: OS Utilities - about four lines of
>code to send a raw SCSI command).  I've seen very successful results from 
>this form of attack on other "secure" products for the Mac, and would bet
>that Norton is not much better (unless they acutally do DES at the lowest
>level, it can, and will, be broken).

I suggest you study the specific program we're discussing, Shayer's "Norton
DiskLock". There is, as far as anyone knows, not way to recover the data on
the disk if you don't have the password (I'm not talking about the
individual file protection but the disk protection). You can be sure the
author knows all about the approaches you suggest.

As to file protection, the current version isn't so stupid as to store the
DES key unencrypted. Those who assert that are stupidly assuming that
because a program can reject a bad key, it must have the key stored.

There IS one possible objection to the FILE protection in DiskLock--and that
is that the DES key could be longer or TDES could be used. But the resources
to exploit the standard length single DES key are beyond almost all
adversaries except perhaps a few wealthy governments or very wealthy
companies, who think your disk of extremely high priority. And they'd have
to steal the files to try even that. If you lock your disk properly, that
becomes near-impossible.

Just to be sure, I just encrypted a file using the DES option, and the
password isn't in the data fork; there is no resource fork.

Most likely the file protection password is one-way hashed, and an offered
password's hash is compared. There is a simpler form of encryption also
available in DiskLock for those who wish to encrypt files very quickly to
keep casual eyes off it. There is no representation of high security for
that alternative.

The DISK protection is independent of the file protection.

David

David
-- 
The values that define our common-sense world are under assault. Some have
taken to extremes the spurious notion of freedom without responsibility, and
are trying to tear down moral guardrails. Those who live on the shoulders
are told by their pals that they are in the middle of the road. Nothing is
wrong any more (except, of course, conservative thoughts and expressions).
