Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!dsinc!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!EU.net!Germany.EU.net!news.dfn.de!gs.dfn.de!news.dkrz.de!news.rrz.uni-hamburg.de!fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de!bontchev
From: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de (Vesselin Bontchev)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: How good is PKZIP 2.0x encryption?
Date: 21 Jul 1994 18:43:59 GMT
Organization: University of Hamburg -- Germany
Lines: 52
Message-ID: <30mflf$5hq@rzsun02.rrz.uni-hamburg.de>
References: <3065cs$khq@news.worldlink.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

phil reed (p01613@psilink.com) writes:

> In conversation with the tech support people for PKZIP, I keep getting statements
> like this:

>    The only way to break PKZIP's password is to guess at all the possible
>    password combinations, so a long password (7 character) is very secure.
>    PGP is a very good program, but I don't know which is more secure.

Bwahahaha! The next time you talk to them, ask them why the NSA has
granted them almost unlimited export license to their program (except
to some countries like Iraq, Lybia, etc., to whom it is not allowed to
export even the time of day), while still strictly (and
unsuccessfully) trying to keep PGP as an export-restricted item, just
like the nukes.

A 7-character password in PKZIP is moderately secure against amateur
hackers, IF you select the 7 characters completely at random, from the
full 255-character alphabet. I strongly doubt that it will withstand
an attack of a professional cryptanalyst.

> Does anybody out there have an analysis of PKZIP's encryption? I know that 

I don't know any professional cryptanalyst to have tried seriously to
crack it. Probably they all think that it is not worth the effort.

> AccessData lists PKZIP as one of the programs they can recover passwords on, and

Nope. AccessData's method works only for passwords that are either
short (up to 5 characters, if I remember correctly) or are a
dictionary word. In short, they are doing brute-force; not real
cryptanalysis.

> I will be calling them. But, if somebody in the Usenet world has looked at
> PKZIP, I'd appreciate hearing what you found.

I can tell you only this - the algorithm is weak. Depending on how
valuable your information is and who you want to protect it from, this
weak algorithm might be strong enough for you, if you select a good
password.

If you want an archiver that compresses better than PKZIP and uses
*real* encryption (conventional as well as public-key; compatible with
the keys generated by PGP) - use HPACK.

Regards,
Vesselin
--
Vesselin Vladimirov Bontchev          Virus Test Center, University of Hamburg
Tel.:+49-40-54715-224, Fax: +49-40-54715-226      Fachbereich Informatik - AGN
< PGP 2.3 public key available on request. > Vogt-Koelln-Strasse 30, rm. 107 C
e-mail: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de        22527 Hamburg, Germany
