Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!torn!newshost.uwo.ca!cogsci.uwo.ca!mckeever
From: mckeever@cogsci.uwo.ca (Paul McKeever)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper,alt.privacy
Subject: Re: White House retreats on Clipper --> perceived retreat?
Date: 22 Jul 1994 07:43:15 GMT
Organization: University of Western Ontario, London, Ont. Canada
Lines: 44
Distribution: na
Message-ID: <30ntaj$bop@falcon.ccs.uwo.ca>
NNTP-Posting-Host: cogsci.uwo.ca
Cc: 
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:29948 alt.privacy.clipper:4711 alt.privacy:17126

Just wondering: Is a bitstream of voice data distinguishable from
                a bitstream of non-voice data?  After it is encoded
                with an encryption method that does not meet the EES?

                If voice data is indistinguishable from other data,
                HOW can the standard be enforced for voice data 
                without making the standard apply to ALL data?

                And what, exactly, is "voice" data?  My telephone
                has a funny knack of transmitting SOUND, rather 
                than just the sound of my voice.  So, doesn't
                VP Gore mean that the standard would apply only
                to data that allows one to hear things?

                Moreover, why don't terrorists (if my assumption
                about the VP's 
                 'clarification is correct) simply learn sign
                language...almost as good as sound for communicating
                verbal messages that pose a risk to national security...
                perhaps this is something that the government will
                'suddenly discover' after the standard is accepted 
                for "voice" communications: the standard's application
                (i.e., scope of involuntariness) will have to 
                expand.  My second year introductory text in social
                psychology called this the "foot in the door" technique,
                if I recall correctly.  So that will rule out the
                use of non-clipper for any data that allows one to
                see or hear a message...maybe our brail readers
                will be safe...for a while.

                One thing I think we can be confident about though.
                And maybe the VP can make this claim with some
                intellectual honesty: the standard will not apply
                to the communications of smell or gustatory information...
                no that won't work: the standard has smelled fishy
                since its announcement, and it's an idea that's 
                certainly leaving a bad taste in the mouths of many.


Regards, 

Paul McKeever
(In remembrance of Jefferson's hopes for America).

