Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!zombie.ncsc.mil!golf!mizzou1.missouri.edu!C445585
From: C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Questions about conditional access for Pay-TV
Date: Sat, 23 Jul 94 15:01:11 CDT
Organization: University of Missouri, Columbia
Lines: 39
Message-ID: <16FFCD339S86.C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu>
References: <2vrpnn$jeb@grapevine.lcs.mit.edu> <Ct7vxx.Dvr@sneaky.lonestar.org>
NNTP-Posting-Host: mizzou1.missouri.edu

In article <Ct7vxx.Dvr@sneaky.lonestar.org>
gordon@sneaky.lonestar.org (Gordon Burditt) writes:
 
>Each decoder box contains a serial number (also printed on the outside
>of the box, and you give this to the service provider when you
>subscribe to the service) and a secret key which is embedded in
>the box and is protected by tamper-proof circuitry.  The key is
>unique for each box.
 
   Although it's probably practical for this kind of scheme, I've long
thought that the answer to this kind of problem is to make the "master"
key each user has be a public key, used to digitally sign requests for
access to things.
 
   When a user wants access to a channel, they send back a (relatively
low bandwidth) digitally-signed request, along with some information
that can be used to derive a shared key, perhaps a randomly-generated
string to be used to generate a shared key.  The center sends back
enough information that both it and the user's box generate a shared
key for a one-key cipher like IDEA.  This is the current key for this
channel.
 
   This sort of scheme would work well for pay-per-view schemes.  Does
the user want to hand out his key?  He's welcome to, so long as he also
keeps paying the bills, and he's not using more than one pay-per-view
movie at a time....
 
   Nothing would keep the user from sending the pay-per-view secret
key to his friends, though.  Perhaps changing the key every few minutes
would deter this, perhaps making the operation of the cipher somehow
dependent on the serial number of the box, or using the secret key of
the user in its calculation, would help.  (For that matter, nothing
would keep the user from sending the decoded images to his friends,
or recording them for later viewing....)
 
>                                        Gordon L. Burditt
>                                        sneaky.lonestar.org!gordon
 
   --John Kelsey, c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu
