Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!swrinde!pipex!uknet!cix.compulink.co.uk!mc2
From: mc2@cix.compulink.co.uk ("John Mccormac")
Subject: RE: Questions about conditional access for Pay-TV
Message-ID: <CtGAqL.EAD@cix.compulink.co.uk>
Organization: Hack Watch News
References: <2vrpnn$jeb@GRAPEVINE.LCS.MIT.EDU>
Date: Sun, 24 Jul 1994 15:23:09 GMT
X-News-Software: Ameol
Lines: 81

The main problem with CA Pay television is that the pace of technology 
always ensures that the system will be compromised. In fact the security 
of any system is a compromise (no pun intended) between economy and 
security.

Most of the card systems here in Europe have been hacked. The two main 
systems, BSkyB's VideoCrypt and FilmNet & TV1000's EuroCrypt have been 
compromised because of some very stupid design flaws in their 
implementation.

VideoCrypt while on the surface being a good system was supposed to have 
a Fiat Shamir Zero Knowledge Test which ensured that the card had to 
authenticate itself to the decoder every few minutes in addition to which 
the decoder had to generate a decryption key. If the card was a pirate 
card then it would have been shut out by the decoder. This was absolute 
drivel. I actually recorded a pirate card in operation being ZKTed and 
giving false responses and the decoder did not shut it out. Neither did 
it do any obvious test on the smart card's id number to see if it was 
false. It accepted an obviously fake number 00 00 00 00 00 00 without 
even shutting it out.

As a result the VideoCrypt system was left only with a hash function to 
hack. When this was hacked the system was awash with pirate cards for 
over a year.

EuroCrypt was an even worse disaster. They used DES. Yes, and  in their 
finite wisdom the designers of this system even removed the initial and 
inverse initial permutations in order to make it run faster on a smart 
card. It also appears that most of the users of this system here in 
Europe use a common block of keys - hack one, hack all say I (Old pirate 
joke P-) )

These systems failed because it was possible to detach the access control 
system from the hash function/key generation aspect of the architecture.

VideoCrypt had to go to a new card issue over the hack. That card issue 
was also hacked and it looks like the actual smart card is being reverse 
engineered.

EuroCrypt is in more trouble. A new pirate card that will be on the 
market in the next few weeks will have a DES key cruncher as  part of the 
design. When the pirate card user is not watching a channel, he leaves 
the card in the decoder. The decoder will be on a channel that has 
recently changed its key. The cruncher will step through a block of keys 
and when it finds the correct one it will memorise it. Of course looking 
at this in a single card term is not correct. A card like this would be 
sold in thousands if not tens of thousands. (the pirate card user would 
return the card to the manufacturer for a prize of 5000 pounds or so). 
With this you would have a virtual BFA key cruncher of some five to ten 
thousand processors. I haven't done any decent calculations on the time 
this would take to crunch a new key but it would be drastically short of 
a year perhaps a few days.

The problem of including a ZKT or some form of authentication in any CA 
Pay TV system is that it will be hacked. If it is not the smart card 
section it will be the decoder section. One of my theories on why ZKT 
failed in VideoCrypt is that they forgot to protect the chip with the ZKT 
routines in the decoder. The result was that the routines could be 
written out of the microcontroller program.

With any smart card system, a considerable risk is being taken. Some of 
these companies who manufacture or design these systems do not, in my 
opinion, do enough testing with live hackers with the result that the 
Blackbox industry tears their system apart. Perhaps it is just arrogance 
that yet another unhackable system (unbreakable code) has been created.

I'll post more information in a later post.


Regards...jmcc



------------------------------------------------------------------
| John McCormac                   | Hack Watch News              |
| Editor - Hack Watch News        | MC2 (Publications Division)  |
| Voice & Fax: +353-51-73640      | 22 Viewmount, Waterford      |
| BBS: +353-51-50143              | Ireland                      |
| e-mail: mc2@cix.compulink.co.uk |-------------------------------
| john.mccormac@f402.n263.z2.fidonet.org | Black Book 4 -22/07   |
------------------------------------------------------------------
