Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!news.mic.ucla.edu!unixg.ubc.ca!unruh
From: unruh@physics.ubc.ca (William Unruh)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Subject: Re: Phill Zimmermann Reply
Date: 24 Jul 1994 18:08:05 GMT
Organization: The University of British Columbia
Lines: 38
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <30uam5$k2o@nntp.ucs.ubc.ca>
References: <gradyCt58po.EFJ@netcom.com> <3skXPc4w165w@tanda.on.ca> <gradyCtG8uD.29s@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: physics.ubc.ca
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:30025 alt.security.pgp:17832

grady@netcom.com (Grady Ward) writes:

>But ViaCrypt and MIT are using a properly licensed version. Presumably this
>means that Mr Zimmermann, who carefully oversees use of the name PGP, has
>changed his mind about whether the RSA patent is valid or not.

>If he has changed his mind and recognizes that the RSA patent needs to be
>licensed, then that is tantamount to admitting that he wrongly infringed
>with 1.0. On the other hand if he is licensing now because it is expedient,
>then perhaps his motives or radicalism has changed into something else less
>appealing.

His motive as far as I can see was to get out a free copy of an email
encryption routine. Doesn't seem much difference there. His radicallism
was to put it out even theourh he could not get permission from PKP. He
now got it. Seems you want him to make his radicallism the primary
motive, even if it destroys the possibility of what he has claimed to be
his primary motive- getting out a freely available encryption routine. 
For you radicallism may be an end in itself. That is not necessarily
true of every one else in the world.

Any patent holder has the choice of making his license requirements as
high as he wants. However intellegent patent holders price their product
just high enough that people will pay and not be tempted to litigation,
in which case evey one, including the patent holder loses, even if he
winds the case. In the case of RSA and PGP it finally became clear that
that price was $0. They are far better off getting PGP to license it fro
free, than either going to litigation, or just leaving the situation go
on as it was with PGP challenging by its existence the legitimacy of the
patent. For Zimmerman it is better to get their approval and get the
program to be used by huge bunches of people than it is to go to
litigation. Everyone wins, except appaprently a few who felt that
radicallism for its own sake was the issue. Ah well, I guess there never
are any complete victories. ( And I though Grady Ward's position was to
get cryptography for the masses out as well. Guess it wasn't.)
--
Bill Unruh
unruh@physics.ubc.ca
