Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!newsserver.jvnc.net!howland.reston.ans.net!news.moneng.mei.com!hookup!grinch.tor.hookup.net!user
From: grinch@hookup.net (Reginald Braithwaite-Lee)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto,comp.sys.newton.misc
Subject: Distributing Newton Crypto
Followup-To: talk.politics.crypto
Date: 25 Jul 1994 19:03:01 GMT
Organization: Who-ville
Lines: 70
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <grinch-250794150308@grinch.tor.hookup.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: grinch.tor.hookup.net
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:30070 talk.politics.crypto:6703 comp.sys.newton.misc:13150

Hello:

recently, as the authr of 'nCrypt', a crypto app for the Newton MessagePad,
I recieved some 'constructive criticism'. A rather amazing email began:

> I feel so really sorry for your export laws, but I just had to test your
> package on my MessagePad 110 (french version), even outside North
> America. I destroyed my copy, which I got from the newton.uiowa.edu
> submission folder...but for the following reason:    

The email then turned to the subject at hand, a misunderstanding about the
functioning of the 'New Passphrase' option. I responded cordially,
explaining the function. After receiving another post from this individual,
I finally lost it and replied much as follows:

------------------

: I have a problem with you signing your messages 'sincerely' when you
: have chosen to disregard our injunction not to take our software outside
: of North America/Canada. I don't know whether you are thumbing your nose
: at our governments or whether you are merely ignorant, but either way I
: take it as a persnal snub, since you have obviously read our injunction,
: which reads:
: 
: "A Personal Appeal from Andy and Reginald
: 
: We realize that many people, including Canadian and American citizens,
: disagree with the laws governing the export of cryptographic software.
: We also realize that many people feel that the best way to change these
: laws is to circumvent them.
: 
: If you feel this way, please donÕt use nCrypt Light to make your
: personal statement. Much as we sympathise with those who seek to change
: these laws, we have chosen to respect them. If you feel strongly about
: distributing cryptographic software for Newton, please write your own.
: DonÕt trample on our rights in a headlong rush to protect the world from
: itself.
: 
: If you are outside of Canada and the USA, please destroy this copy of
: nCrypt Light. We know we canÕt force you to do so, and we know you
: probably arenÕt breaking any of your laws. But you are making it
: impossible for us to continue to write cryptographic software. Please
: respect our freedom of choice. Thank-you."
: 
: Please write your own crypto software. That's right, burn the midnight
: oil, give up your social diversions, study the subject, become a regular
: reader of sci.crypt, sweat over the Newton Toolkit, make the sacrifice.
: You may not agree with our laws. You may not respect them. But when you
: ignore my injunction you are, perhaps unwittingly, telling me that you
: don't respect my wishes. 
: 
: All I can tell you is, write your own. Don't be a lazy cybernaut feeding
: off the efforts of others.

I repeat this appeal. Please, please don't make life difficult for those of
us who choose to write crypto software here in North America. As it is, I'm
ready to give it up entirely [which may not be a big loss to crypto]. But
there are other, more talented authors out there. Don't put us in jeopardy
of losing the freedom to write this stuff. If we want to engage in civil
disobedience, give us the freedom to choose to do so.

-- 
Reginald Braithwaite-Lee
grinch@hookup.net

Public Key Fingerprint: D8 B8 C1 D0 DD 56 20 B4  06 A2 81 83 87 E8 8B 64
(Send message with subject "HELP" to pgp-public-keys@pgp.ox.ac.uk)

-> nCrypt, the strong cryptography application for Newton:
-> ftp.sumex-aim.stanford.edu/info-mac/nwt/utils/n-crypt-lite.hqx
