Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!psuvax1!news.pop.psu.edu!news.cac.psu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!yeshua.marcam.com!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!csusac!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Integrity
Message-ID: <strnlghtCtIH37.FEu@netcom.com>
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
Date: Mon, 25 Jul 1994 19:35:31 GMT
Lines: 31


There have been many posts in sci.crypt, some vicious, complaining when
those with unpopular opinions that were non-technical posted them to
sci.crypt. As a consequence of members' desire to see sci.crypt be a
technical group, talk.politics.crypto was created.

That wish is still being violated and as a result, a moderated group is now
under discussion.

Here is an opportunity for an integrity test of members. Stanton McCandless
of the industry lobbying group EFF just cross-posted a very long message on
the politics of Clipper to sci.crypt, commenting on the Gore letter and the
administration's position. I don't propose to go into the substance of that
post, which I've done in the appropriate groups it was posted to. It was
posted to many appropriate groups, so there's no question of posting simply
to the wrong group in error.

That post has no business in sci.crypt, according to the desires and
standards expressed by many members of this group.

Since McCandless' political position is popular with some here, this is a
chance to tell him, just as you've told me and others, that sci.crypt is no
place for political posts, and demonstrate that such a position comes from
fair-minded integrity rather than being just another way to attack those
whose views one doesn't like. I have e-mailed him about this, but he
essentially gave me the very polite finger in response.
-- 
The values that define our common-sense world are under assault. Some have
taken to extremes the spurious notion of freedom without responsibility, and
are trying to tear down moral guardrails. Those who live on the shoulders
are told by their pals that they are in the middle of the road. Nothing is
wrong any more (except, of course, conservative thoughts and expressions).
