Path: msuinfo!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!overload.lbl.gov!ames!hookup!yeshua.marcam.com!MathWorks.Com!news.duke.edu!convex!cs.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: mech@eff.org (Stanton McCandlish)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Sternlight's "Get mad at EFF" nonsense
Date: 25 Jul 1994 18:30:16 -0500
Organization: UTexas Mail-to-News Gateway
Lines: 85
Sender: nobody@cs.utexas.edu
Message-ID: <199407252329.TAA23326@eff.org>
References: <199407251939.MAA20498@netcom13.netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: news.cs.utexas.edu

> I have posted the following to sci.crypt. I apologize, by the way, for
> misspelling your name. It was a slip, and not intentional:

No problem.  McCandless is actually the same name, just a variant.  But
that's neither here nor there.  BTW, I don't have a PhD, as your later
note somehow surmised.  Either that, or I have a major memory gap...

> There have been many posts in sci.crypt, some vicious, complaining when
> those with unpopular opinions that were non-technical posted them to
> sci.crypt. As a consequence of members' desire to see sci.crypt be a
> technical group, talk.politics.crypto was created.
> 
> That wish is still being violated and as a result, a moderated group is now
> under discussion.

Finally.  That's a wonderful idea.
 
> Here is an opportunity for an integrity test of members. Stanton McCandless

A test which you just failed David.

I have little to say on this matter other than the following:

1) I've have utmost respect for the scope and purpose of sci.crypt, and
only infrequently send non-technical messages here.  I only do this when I
feel that it is warranted, that the readers of this newsgroup will
appreciate the news immediately.  The vast majority of my posts on
crypto-policy never make their way into this newsgroup, unless others are
forwarding and reposting them.
2) I trust that if my postings are offtopic or otherwise unwanted that the
readers of this newsgroup will inform me.  This has only happened to me
once, ever, at which point I refrained from sending all but the most
important crypto-policy related messages to this forum, after which I've
received not a single complaint.
3) For some reason, David Sternlight has attempted to create an anti-EFF
flamewar where one has not existed (so much for his concerns about
bandwidth and s:n), so I trust you'll ignore him. If YOU don't want to see
our material, please let me know.  I already know David Sternlight doesn't
want to see them, but well, I'd considered him outvoted.  Up to you to
prove me right or wrong.  

> of the industry lobbying group EFF just cross-posted a very long message on

EFF is not an industry lobby.  We're a 501(c)(3) nonprofit membership
organization, an public interest group concerned with civil liberties and
access issues in cyberspace.  The fact that we will accept monetary
donations from most sources (excepting governmental ones) does not make us a
trade group or corporate mouthpiece.  Extra sources of revenue like that
do not in any way affect our mission or policy.  That's a principle EFF's
stood solidly on since the day of its inception.

Also, as I previously pointed out, the length of the post is irrelevant.
When a message is cross-posted, it is a single copy, rather than being
individually placed in each newsgroup.  

> the politics of Clipper to sci.crypt, commenting on the Gore letter and the
> administration's position. I don't propose to go into the substance of that
> post, which I've done in the appropriate groups it was posted to. It was

Actually, as I recall, you tried to post it comp.org.eff.news, our
moderated announcements newsgroup...

> posted to many appropriate groups, so there's no question of posting simply
> to the wrong group in error.

No, I included sci.crypt on purpose, as I believed that the news would be
of interest, though lacking in mathematics and theory and the other things
that normally absorb attention here.

> Since McCandless' political position is popular with some here, this is a
> chance to tell him, just as you've told me and others, that sci.crypt is no
> place for political posts, and demonstrate that such a position comes from
> fair-minded integrity rather than being just another way to attack those
> whose views one doesn't like. I have e-mailed him about this, but he
> essentially gave me the very polite finger in response.

Actually I seem to recall saying to you what I've said above: that the
readers of this newsgroup appear to value my infrequent posts, and that
I do not receive condemnatory email about them.

-- 
Stanton McCandlish * mech@eff.org * Electronic Frontier Found. OnlineActivist
F O R   M O R E   I N F O,    E - M A I L    T O:     I N F O @ E F F . O R G 
O  P  E  N    P  L  A  T  F  O  R  M     O  N  L  I  N  E    R  I  G  H  T  S
V  I   R   T   U   A   L    C  U   L   T   U   R   E     C  R   Y   P   T   O
