Newsgroups: alt.security,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!gatech!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!umn.edu!sctc.com!smith
From: smith@sctc.com (Rick Smith)
Subject: Re: Electronic Checks
Message-ID: <1993Nov2.145155.14922@sctc.com>
Organization: SCTC
References: <2b3iks$fm4@lll-winken.llnl.gov> <QgpKvQa00ioWEF1kVU@andrew.cmu.edu>
Date: Tue, 2 Nov 1993 14:51:55 GMT
Lines: 36
Xref: msuinfo alt.security:12709 sci.crypt:20839

Amit Zavery <az24+@andrew.cmu.edu> writes:

>Does anyone know about any banks providing facilities for electronic
>checks? 
>I am trying to find out about the type of security they use and how good
>it is.
>I would also like to know what features they have available.

You're probably referring to CheckFree, an electronic check writing
service. They write checks on your account in response to payment
instructions you send to them via modem. You can tell them to send
a fixed amount periodically to some recipient (i.e. regular loan
or utility payments) or you can send individuals.

CheckFree is supported by the main home accounting programs: Quicken
and Managing Your Money, which you can get from any mailorder PC/Mac
software warehouse. CheckFree also sells their own software, but it's
less capable from a home accounting standpoint. Also, I'd feel safer
going to multiple vendors for home accounting. Makes built-in fraud
harder for them to implement.

CheckFree authentication seems to require combination of social
security number and PIN. The actual authentication procedure isn't
described. However, you're all but required to store the PIN permanently
with your bill paying software, so you're not protected from someone
who steals your software and starts submitting bills with it.

I wrote them a nasty note about this when I used CheckFree a couple
years back. Their response didn't acknowledge the problem, but they
admitted that by law they couldn't hold me responsible for payments
caused by someone forging my electronic identity. Like most financial
institutions, they believe it's cheaper to absorb the cost of fraud
than it is to look seriously at their security. All I asked for was
PIN handling somewhat comparable to that on ATMs.

Rick.
