Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!gatech!udel!news.sprintlink.net!crash!pro-cynosure!barryh
From: barryh@pro-cynosure.clark.net (Barry Herman)
Subject: Follow up to Help on Essay (a note of thanks and the essay itself)
Content-Type: text
Organization: Cynosure BBS - Email and newsgroups at 410-549-2584
Date: Wed, 3 Nov 93 18:27:11 EST
Message-ID: <1993Nov3.182711.1608@pro-cynosure.clark.net>
Content-Length: 8302
Lines: 157

   First of all, I'd like to thank all of the people who answered my
request for help on my essay with information, suggestions, and FTP
sites.  I have learned by now not to try to list names (you know who
you are).
 
   Second, about the essay, I know that it is over-simplified but the
people I was writing it for (including the teacher) don't know what a
modem is let alone the Internet or Clipper.  Please tell me about any
mistakes I have made in it. I will post a follow-up when I recieve a
grade.
 
            The Lack of Electronic Privacy in America
                        
                        By: Barry Herman
     
     Do you want the government reading your mail or listening in
on your private phone conversations?  The NSA (National Security
Agency) has proposed a plan that will do just that.  They call it
the "Clipper Chip" initiative.
 
     On April 16, 1993, the Clinton Administration announced the
Clipper Chip initiative, a plan that the government said would,
"help companies protect proprietary information, protect the
privacy of personal phone conversations, and prevent unauthorized
release of data transmitted electronically" while preserving,
"the ability of federal, state and local law enforcement agencies
to intercept lawfully the phone conversations of criminals".  It
sounds good on the surface, but what does it really mean, how
will it be implemented, and what could it mean about the future
of electronic privacy in America?
 
     The Clipper Initiative can be thought of as a safe to which
the government knows the combination.  When you buy a safe you
get your combination, for example 10-23-45.  The government will
require that you register the combination with two government
agencies that have not yet been decided.  One of the agencies
will have the first part (10) while the other will have the
second (23-45).  Should some law-enforcement agency deem it
necessary to open your safe, it would first have to present the
evidence to a judge.  The judge would then decide whether their
claim was valid and, if so, issue a court order (similar to a
wiretap order) that would allow the combination controlling
agencies to release their parts of the combination to the law-
enforcement officials.  The law-enforcement officials would then
open the safe.  The difference between this and the Clipper Chip
is that the Clipper Chip deals with encryption.  Encryption is
the scrambling of data, based on a key and a complex mathematical
formula so that the original data cannot be determined without
the key. Instead of being used to physically open a safe, it
could be used to read peoples' e-mail (electronic mail) and
intercept phone conversations.  In addition, the government
agencies would each hold half of the key.  They are known as the
"key-escrow" system.
 
     The Clipper Chip will be implemented through various
manufacturers who will buy the chips or license the technology.
Since the Clipper Chip is hardware (a physical unit) and not
software (a computer program), it could only be used by including
the chip in the actual product. "At the currently stated price of
$26 per Clipper Chip, Clipper would add about $100 to the cost of
a modem or other piece of equipment. Given that DES [Data
Encryption Standard, the current government authorized encryption
system] can be implemented on about 1% of the area of a modern
high-density IC [integrated circuit], and that some 9600 bps
modems now sell for $200 each, I am concerned that even $26 per
unit will be an impediment to using encryption as widely as it
should be. A secret algorithm also precludes software
implementations, the most cost effective solution for low-usage
applications," stated Martin E. Hellman, Professor of Electrical
Engineering, at Stanford University, in his paper to the Computer
System Security and Privacy Advisory Board of the National
Institute of Standards and Technology.
 
     Another reason for distrusting the Clipper Chip is that the
algorithm inside of it (Skipjack) is being kept classified.
Since it is classified the public has no way of knowing how
secure it is.  It might have a 'backdoor' that would allow the
NSA to decrypt the information without assistance from the other
government agencies; thus, defeating the judicial safeguard.  It
also might rely on security through obscurity (the security of
the chip may rely on aspects of the chip's operation staying
confidential and undiscovered rather than solely upon the key).
If this technique is used and the chip's operation discovered, it
would permanently destroy the effectiveness of the chip and all
messages that were previously sent.  This would have significant
economic ramifications because all the products developed using
the Clipper technology would have to be replaced with a better
chip or lose all security.  So far AT&T as well as the Justice
Department have expressed interest in purchasing the chip.
 
     Many people have expressed their concern with the Clipper
initiative.  Among them is Philip Zimmermann who revolutionized
the use of data encryption with his program PGP (Pretty Good
Protection) which uses the RSA algorithm.  There are two unusual
facts about this program.  First, this encryption system is
thought to be unbreakable.  Second, the program is free.
Zimmermann believes that the purpose of the Clipper initiative
is, "To head off the grim possibility of the public embracing
strong cryptographic standards on their own, without back doors
for the government to use for law enforcement and intelligence
gathering needs."  Philip Zimmermann feels that the reason for
keeping the algorithm classified is, "...to prevent people from
doing their own implementations of Skipjack that are not tied
into a key escrow system."
 
     Another person who disagrees with the Clipper proposal is
Grady Ward.  He is the software designer and programmer who
created the cryptography program Moby Crypt.  The government has
forced his publisher to take the program off the market due to
export restrictions. It is illegal to export any cryptographic
program without a license.  The matter is currently being
investigated by a grand jury.  Ward thinks that the purpose of
the Clipper Chip is, "To try to forge a balance between two
competing groups at NSA: sigint or signals intelligence (who want
weak ciphers so that they can listen to everything) and comsec
communications security (who want strong ciphers so no one can
read our mail). Also the FBI of course feels helpless in the face
of new technologies.  Thirty years ago they bragged how they
broke spy ciphers. They don't anymore."  He believes the reason
that the Skipjack algorithm is classified is, "To make it harder
for a third party to make a 'trojan' clipper chip that does not
use escrowed keys yet could be plugged into a future clipper
device....  And of course the NSA is just plain secretive."
 
     If the main purpose of the Clipper initiative is to allow
the government legitimate access to criminals, then they are
forgetting a crucial issue: Criminals are not required to use the
Clipper Chip.  Until the government makes encryption (with
anything other than their 'authorized' algorithms) illegal,
criminals will be able to encrypt their data with other
(virtually) unbreakable algorithms such as RSA.  If that happens
will the criminals stop using their encryption programs simply
because the government makes them  illegal?  As Philip Zimmermann
said in the documentation for PGP, "If privacy is outlawed, only
outlaws will have privacy."
                          
                          Bibliography
 
Detweiler, L. <ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu>. IDENTITY,
        PRIVACY, and ANONYMITY on the INTERNET. Colorado: USENET
        Newsgroup, sci.crypt, 1993.
 
Hellman, Martin E. Cryptographic Issue Statements to the Computer
        System Security and Privacy Advisory Board of the National
        Institute of Standards and Technology. Stanford:
        isl.stanford.edu in /pubs/hellman/reports/clipper.text, 1993.
 
"Panel sees flaws in plan for encoding." New York Times, 5 June
        1993, sec. N: 17.
 
Ward, Grady. <grady@netcom.com>. E-Mail Interview., 29 October.
        1993.
 
Zimmermann, Philip. <prz@acm.org>. E-Mail Interview., 30 October.
        1993.
 

