Newsgroups: comp.security.unix,comp.sys.sun.admin,alt.security,comp.security.misc,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!ames!sgi!rhyolite.wpd.sgi.com!calcite!vjs
From: vjs@calcite.rhyolite.com (Vernon Schryver)
Subject: Re: crypto calculators (Was: Re: Security Incident)
References: <bbosenCFM4Cu.2q9@netcom.com> <CFMsyD.D6z@calcite.rhyolite.com> <bbosenCFz5nF.IEt@netcom.com>
Organization: Rhyolite Software
Date: Fri, 5 Nov 1993 02:54:58 GMT
Message-ID: <CG003n.8GC@calcite.rhyolite.com>
Lines: 46
Xref: msuinfo comp.security.unix:800 comp.sys.sun.admin:24007 alt.security:12773 comp.security.misc:6003 sci.crypt:20888

In article <bbosenCFz5nF.IEt@netcom.com> bbosen@netcom.com (Bob Bosen) writes:
>
>I agree that replaying a password within one or two display intervals is
>difficult if not automated. Will you agree that it is easy if it is
>automated? I know how to automate it, and I'm sure lots of others do too.
>...

No, I do not agree with that.

As others have written, a good system would refuse to honor the same
password twice.  Yes, that means making a user wait 30 seconds (or whatever
the interval) after mistyping the correct password.  Yes, that means not
allowing two independent sessions to start within 30 seconds (or whatever)
of each other.

Also, it seems the main hole you are concerned about involves having more
than one system honoring passwords from a single magic crypto card.  That
strikes me as a very bad idea, at least unless the systems completely
coordinate what they think is going on with the crypto card.  Each
independent system should have its own string of passwords, whether from
separate cards or from one card with independent, user-selectable streams.
This is no more than the good sense that comes with avoiding master keys
for door locks.

Yes, both of those would inconvenience users.  So what?  Any security is
an inconvenience, which is why practically all computer systems in the
U.S. or the world have no notion of any passwords, and while even many,
probably most UNIX systems have poor or no root passwords.  (Obviously,
I'm counting more than the small minority of computers that are connected
to the Internet or even to modems, and I consider even PC's "computers.")

Neither of those two inconveniences need be significant.  The remote access
being talked about seems to be for dumb screens.  I doubt anyone really
cares if they can't open more than one window/30 seconds to read their
remote mail.  From what I can tell, most system that use the magic cards
install them on very few, generally exactly one firewall system.

Anyone who needs fancier services with high security can easily implement
whatever is needed, using the tools I think you meant, laptops, palmtops,
cryptography, and so on.

No security mechanism is fool proof.  Anything can be use in a way that
is insecure, including the new fangle crypto cards.


Vernon Schryver    vjs@rhyolite.com
