Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!CUNYVMS1.GC.CUNY.EDU!DLV
From: dlv@CUNYVMS1.GC.CUNY.EDU (Dimitri Vulis, CUNY GC Math)
Newsgroups: comp.security.misc,sci.crypt
Subject: Undergraduate course in computer security?
Date: 5 Nov 1993 19:26:07 GMT
Organization: Computer Center, CUNY Graduate School, New York NY 10036
Lines: 43
Message-ID: <2be9cf$1jh@sol.ctr.columbia.edu>
Reply-To: dlv@CUNYVMS1.GC.CUNY.EDU
NNTP-Posting-Host: cunyvms1.gc.cuny.edu
Xref: msuinfo comp.security.misc:6014 sci.crypt:20898

Dear All,

Next semester I'm scheduled to teach an undergraduate course in "Computer
Security" at a small private college. (I'd like to very much, but enough
students have to register for it...) This is the first time the course is
offered, so I get to write the course description, curriculum, syllabus, and
the works (this is fun! :). I'd appreciate your input on 2 topics:

1. I've found just one undergraduate college textbook on computer security:
Charles P. Pfleeger, Security in Computing, Prentice Hall '89, $65 (!!).
It's not bad, if supplemented by a lot of class notes, but I'm wondering if
anyone could suggest another book that 1) is undergraduate college
textbook (vs. a reference, of which I have several good ones), 2) covers
the subject without hype. Any suggestions will be appreciated!

2. I've just e-mailed the draft course description to the dean and I'll be
grateful for any suggestions regarding this as well: have I omitted anything?

The course will explore the growing field of computer security. Audience:
managers administering computers, from standalone micros to networks and
mainframes. Topics may include the vulnerabilities of operating systems and
databases; types of attacks and attackers; administrative responsibilities
and tools; policy awareness; hardware aids; classical and public-key
encryption; authentication/digital signatures; secure communication
protocols; copy protection; auditing/certifying compliance; legal/ethical
issues; privacy v. law enforcement; risks assessmenet; physical protection;
disaster recovery planning; penetration detection/investigation.

Case studies/class projects (exploring security breaches in common operating
systems/networks, forgeries on Internet/Usenet, etc) will include little or
no programming, but students should be able to understand programs discussed
in class, and be comfortable with elementary math (e.g., sets, functions,
addition modulo a number, etc). ??Prerequisites: "Intro to computers"
(CPSG 1028) and "Fundamentals of math" (MTSG 1101) or equivalents.


THANK YOU VERY MUCH IN ADVANCE FOR ALL SUGGESTIONS.
Dimitri Vulis
CUNY GC Math
DLV@CUNYVMS1.BITNET DLV@CUNYVMS1.GC.CUNY.EDU

Disclaimer: my Usenet postings don't necessarily represent anyone's views,
especially my own and/or CUNY's.
