Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!caen!usenet.cis.ufl.edu!usenet.ufl.edu!gatech!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!eff!news.umbc.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!newsflash.concordia.ca!altitude!deltacom!gilles.pelletier
From: gilles.pelletier@deltacom.cam.org (GILLES PELLETIER)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: PGP ON CD-ROMs
Date: Fri,  5 Nov 1993 04:25:00 GMT
Message-ID: <931107143343149@deltacom.cam.org>
Organization: DELTACOM, The place to be!
Distribution: world
Lines: 42   

CO>>My sysop tells me that the copy of PGP23a I got from him is on the
CO>>PIER 3 CD-ROM. Is this any guarantee of authenticity? (If not, the
CO>>consequences would be tremendous.)

CO>Well, you can always get the source code.  Also, the distribution includes
CO>a cryptographic signature on the executable, which you can check with
CO>a previosu version of PGP.  (If it checks with itself, you can be assured
CO>that either it's good, or someone worked hard to deliberately fool
CO>you.)

First, excuse me for taking so long to answer, the BBS I'm with has been
down for more than a week.

I have the source code but I believe it's for version 2.3, not 2.3a.
Besides, I don't have enough programming experience to check for
authenticity.

I don't have a previous version of PGP to authentify the signature.

CO>However, I like to keep track of commercial distribution of PGP.
CO>Could you give me contact info for this "Pier 3" place?

Pier 3 is the name of the company that makes the CD-ROM. The BBS I got
it from is Deltacom, near Montreal: (514) 877-4964.

The name of the files are standard:  PGP23A.ZIP and, source code:
PGP23SRC.ZIP. You can download the first time you log in. The trial
period, I believe, is one month.

                                *****

As I already said, I don't know much about encrypting or programming. As
a matter of fact, I have little use for encrypting. If I got interested,
it's because the political issue seems VERY important to me. I really
don't like the idea of the secret services having all the keys to spy on
us. I don't believe in the benevolence of Big Brother.

You say you like to keep track of the "commercial" distribution of PGP.
What surprises me is that such a distribution exists. I never saw any
reference to it in the PGP documentation or from the little I've read on
this conference. Do you know any other company that distributes PGP on
CD-ROMS?
