Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!xlink.net!math.fu-berlin.de!news.rrz.uni-hamburg.de!fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de!bontchev
From: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de (Vesselin Bontchev)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Crypto questions
Date: 8 Nov 1993 15:10:05 GMT
Organization: University of Hamburg -- Germany
Lines: 76
Message-ID: <2blngd$ihq@rzsun02.rrz.uni-hamburg.de>
References: <041302Z08111993@anon.penet.fi>
NNTP-Posting-Host: fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

an25515@anon.penet.fi (an25515@anon.penet.fi) writes:

> 1.)  What is known about the crypto method used in version 2.04 of PKZIP?  I

It is described in the technical documentation of the package. Hm, I
think that the appropriate file (APPNOTE.DOC) has been distributed
separately and was not included in the package. If you can't find it
on the usual places, I could post here the relevant part that
describes the encryption.

>      understand that the method employed in the previous version has been
>      compromised. 

Not quite. The algorithm is the same as in version 1.1. Just the
implementation is slightly improved, to make dictionary or brute force
attacks a bit more difficult. But even the original implementation is
not easy to break (I mean, by people like me or you; I'm not talking
about government agencies here), especially if you use long passwords
(at least 7 characters), and use in them a mixture of upper-,
lower-case letter, and digits.

PKWare has issued a challenge - a passworded archive, with a password
no longer than 7 characters and the file is stored (not compressed),
and no plaintext is known (and it's a single encrypted file). Many
people regard the challenge as unfair. Anyway, I have participated the
effort to crack it and we have exchausted all possible passwords
of 6 characters or shorter - without success. The search space of all
possible 7-character passwords is too large for a brute force search
to be practical.

Otherwise, there are several ZIP crackers around, but they are
successful only if the password is weak.

> Is the nature of the new algorithm known,

Yes. The algorithm has been made publicly available. The source of an
implementation (the Info-ZIP program) is also available via ftp.

> and is it
>      considered a "strong" one?

No. I am not aware of any serious cryptanalysis of the algorithm, but
NSA has approved the encrypting version of PKZIP 2.04g for export. To
me this means that they can break it with virtually no effort (and I
consider that they can break DES with -some- effort). In any case, the
encryption in PKZIP is significantly better than the one in ARJ, for
instance. The ARJ-encrypted archives can be broken even by amateurs,
using known plaintext.

> 2.)  Does anyone know about the implementation of DES in such commercial
>      packages as Norton Utilities, PC Tools, etc.?  Does it use the ECB
>      mode, or one of the stronger ones?  Do they use a sound algorithm for
>      converting an ASCII "password" into a binary encryption key?

According to some information I received privately, the encryption in
Diskreet (from Norton Utilities) is DES in ECB mode with no IV and the
key used is the first 7 characters of the password. This means a
-very- weak implementation. However, I have not verified this. Also, I
have no knowledge about the DES implementation in PC Tools.

> 3.)  I understand that DES is NOT approved for use with classified infor-
>      mation.  Is anything, of an UNCLASSIFIED nature, known about the
>      crypto methods that are used for such purposes, such as in the
>      STU III secure telecommunications unit?  Is that device publicly
>      available, or is it considered classified hardware?

My clearance does not allow me to answer the above questions. :-) OK,
that was a joke. The real answer is - I don't know.

Regards,
Vesselin
--
Vesselin Vladimirov Bontchev          Virus Test Center, University of Hamburg
Tel.:+49-40-54715-224, Fax: +49-40-54715-226      Fachbereich Informatik - AGN
< PGP 2.3 public key available on request. > Vogt-Koelln-Strasse 30, rm. 107 C
e-mail: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de        22527 Hamburg, Germany
