Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!noc.near.net!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: SSCOGGINS@delphi.com
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: IRIS (Crypto) Latest Version?
Date: Mon, 8 Nov 93 21:04:42 EST
Organization: Delphi Internet
Lines: 89
Message-ID: <931108.75882.SSCOGGINS@delphi.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos3a.delphi.com

I have discovered a shareware program called IRIS from
Digital Crypto in England.  Does anyone know what the latest
version is.  I have version 4.0
 
Here is the information in the help file:
 
 
                              IRIS v4.0-2
 
                        A Cryptographic System
 
                              March 1990
 
 
The PC-Iris program is copyright (C) 1990 by Digital Crypto and Peter Moreton.
All rights reserved. The intellectual property rights of PC-Iris are vested
in Peter Moreton.
 
Non-registered users are granted a limited license to use this product on a
trial basis, and to copy the program for trial use by others subject to the
following limitations:
 
    o The program is distributed in complete unmodified form
    o No fee, charge or other consideration is requested or accepted.
    o The program is not distributed in conjunction with any other product.
 
If you intend to use PC-Iris on a regular basis, please register and show
your support for the author. Commercial, business or governmental use by
non-registered users is prohibited.
 
 
                                 Warranty
 
There is no warranty of any kind associated with this software, and the
copyright owner is not liable for damages of any kind. By using this
software, you agree to this.
 
 
                            Export Restrictions
 
The US Government export regulations prohibit distribution of this program
outside the United States without appropriate export licenses.
 
Overview
 
IRIS implements the following cryptographic techniques:
 
    Whole-file cryptography using the following cipher algorithms:
        RSA, DES, VERNAM, PLAYFAIR, BAZERIES,
        VIGENERE, ADFGVX, LITTLEWOOD.
    CRC generation using the following algorithms:
	CCITT, CCITT reversed, CRC16, CRC16 reversed, BYTESUM.
    Wholesale MAC (message authentication code) generation
    Secure file erasure
 
IRIS is intended to be used by users with a need to store or exchange
sensitive information in a secure manner.
 
For example, a file containing sensitive information such as a spreadsheet
may be encrypted by IRIS effectively precluding unauthorised disclosure.
The (encrypted) spreadsheet may then be transferred via a public e-mail
service or Bulletin board (an insecure channel) to another party, who,
having access to IRIS and the KEY used to encrypt the document, will be
able to decrypt the file, producing the original spreadsheet.
 
The IRIS software is written in the 'C' language, and has been ported to
MS-DOS, UNIX, and VAX/VMS.
 
Registration
 
UNMODIFIED copies of this program may be given to others for evaluation.
This program CANNOT be sold without written permission from Digital Crypto.
 
If you intend to make use of any Digital Crypto product, we would appreciate
your prompt registration. In return for registration you will receive the
current IRIS disk with the latest versions of all our software.
 
Single PC registration is $39.00 (USD) or equivalent local currency.
 
Payment to DIGITAL CRYPTO at:   DIGITAL CRYPTO
                                PO BOX 1
                                Penarth
                                South Glamorgan
                                United Kingdom CF6 2WB
 
Telephone UK: (0222) 711370.   Outside UK: +44 222 711370.
 
Contact Digital Crypto for details of other products and services.
 
