Message-ID: <203302Z10111993@anon.penet.fi>
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!news.moneng.mei.com!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!sunic!trane.uninett.no!news.eunet.no!nuug!news.eunet.fi!anon.penet.fi
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
From: an25515@anon.penet.fi
X-Anonymously-To: sci.crypt
Organization: Anonymous contact service
Reply-To: an25515@anon.penet.fi
Date: Wed, 10 Nov 1993 20:24:32 UTC
Subject: More crypto questions
Lines: 43


Are there any known pitfalls to succesively encrypting a file using 
the same crypto algorithm, but using different keys?  If, let's say, 
the DES algorithm is used in such a manner, is the difficulty of a 
brute force solution really the SQUARE of that for a singly-encrypted 
file?  What about succesive encryptions with DIFFERENT methods, such 
as using PGP on a DES-encrypted file, as an example?

Might the use of a non-standard encryption method in conjunction with 
a standard one such as DES or IDEA thwart an attack?  Much of the 
conjecture concerning breaking DES via brute force, for example, seems 
to be based on the use of multiple, dedicated processors in parallel, 
presumably using highly optimized machine code.  A non-standard 
algorithm, even a comparitively "weak" one, such as a block-oriented, 
bit transposition cipher with a 24 bit key (16 million combinations), 
would seemingly impede that by necessitating the writing of new 
(perhaps less optimized) code to attack that one.  Are there any 
pitfalls to such a scheme, other than the increased processing time to 
encrypt and decrypt?

Does anyone know the feasibility of a "suitably motivated" agency, 
perhaps governmental, doing some sort of traffic analysis by scanning 
for PGP "envelopes" in Internet e-mail to identify heavy crypto users 
and establishing such a list for possible future use/abuse?  It has 
been reported that the NSA, for example, has scanned international 
cables for "interesting" key phrases, and copied the contents of 
cables so selected for further analysis.  Is something similar 
practical on the Internet, or is its architecture diverse enough to 
prevent that from being easily done?  Also, are logs kept of FTP 
requests, perhaps indexed by user id and file name that could later be 
obtained to determine who had requested a certain file, such as PGP?

Is the technical standard for the DES algorithm available anywhere via 
anonymous FTP?  How about the IDEA cipher?

I apologize for my "shotgun approach" to these questions, but I don't 
know how much longer I will have Usenet access.
 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To find out more about the anon service, send mail to help@anon.penet.fi.
Due to the double-blind, any mail replies to this message will be anonymized,
and an anonymous id will be allocated automatically. You have been warned.
Please report any problems, inappropriate use etc. to admin@anon.penet.fi.
