Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!caen!malgudi.oar.net!chemabs!jac55
From: jac55@cas.org ()
Subject: Re: Tower of Secrets
Message-ID: <1993Nov11.170211.18448@cas.org>
Sender: usenet@cas.org
Reply-To: jac55@cas.org
Organization: Chemical Abstracts Service
References: <2boscc$r9l@max.physics.sunysb.edu>
Date: Thu, 11 Nov 1993 17:02:11 GMT
Lines: 37

In article r9l@max.physics.sunysb.edu, pjhong@cs.sunysb.edu (P. Joseph Hong) writes:
>	I've just started reading this book by Victor Sheymov,
>an ex-KGB cipher and communications expert who defected more
>than ten years ago.  Has anybody else read this book, or has
>this been discussed already months ago?

     I've read it.  Structurally, it's just like every other Soviet defector's tale
     from Krivitsky to Gordievsky.  The protagonist starts out as a believer
     in the system and goes sour on it for a variety of reasons.  In a couple
     of cases these people have admitted to being in trouble over missing
     funds or documents.  At this point, they decide either to defect or work
     in place for a while and then defect.   In this respect, it's pretty run-of-the-
     mill.
     
     What drags it below even this is the lack of interesting operational information.
     He alludes to some success in breaking into US cipher systems.  Was this
     because of the contributions of the Walker family, or was it because of their
     own formidable expertise?  Apparently Walker stated during his debriefings
     that the Soviets never asked for any information on one of the high-grade
     US cipher systems.  Maybe this is where they were making real breaks,
     what about some information?   What about the computer capacity for this
     source of effort, where was it coming from?  Was it through their own
     factories (and purloined chip foundries) or was there some spectacular
     movement of computer power across boundaries?   What about his role
     in damage control in the Walker Spy Ring affair?
     
     I expect that the NSA had to vet the manuscript.   This would explain the
     vagueness, but I fail to see the point.  Once the Soviets had discovered that
     he was alive and well  they knew how much trouble they were in.  We could
     have been told a little bit more and be a lot wiser.
     
     Alec Chambers
     
     



