Newsgroups: alt.privacy,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!uunet!olivea!hal.com!decwrl!csus.edu!netcom.com!jktaber
From: jktaber@netcom.com (John K. Taber)
Subject: Re: info on crypto and the law
Message-ID: <jktaberCGFoH3.8AA@netcom.com>
Followup-To: alt.privacy,sci.crypt
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL8]
References: <2bj6mm$bma@toads.pgh.pa.us>
Distribution: usa
Date: Sat, 13 Nov 1993 14:05:27 GMT
Lines: 37
Xref: msuinfo alt.privacy:9588 sci.crypt:21087

Kathryn Harnish (evals@icarus.lis.pitt.edu) wrote:
: i'm in the process of working on a project about the legal issues 
: involved in using encryption technology to protect email and other 
: electroic data for a graduate course in legal aspects of information 
: handling.

: i've been running up against a brick wall in my attempts to find 
: _scholarly_ articles about the privacy rights and encryption; i can find 
: tons of one-page editorials (which aren't gonna cut it as sources for a 
: research paper) and lots of technical information (but the paper isn't 
: about the technical aspects).  i've gone through the online materials at 
: the eff gopher site, read the sci.crypt faq, scoured the library (things 
: like _privacy journal_ don't deal with any of this in the depth that i 
: need), etc etc etc, to no avail.

: if any of you have any suggestions as to where i might find more 
: scholarly information along the lines i need, please let me know.  i'm 
: really excited about getting the project rolling, but i'm starting to get 
: frustrated at the lack of resources available to me.

: thanks bunches,
: kathryn
Do a good job of research and writing, and YOU will be the scholar.  You 
are going to have to work with original sources.  There is a Justice Dept 
brief on the constitutionality of suppressing crypto talk.  About 1980, 
George Brown of Calif held hearings on gov't control of crypto and the 
subject of "born censored", that is, whether or not crypto is a science 
born censored like nuclear physics.  I think the Justice brief is 
available someplace from the net.  Congressional hearings you will have 
to dig out for yourself.  Also, there is or was an Administrative group 
on Telecommunications policy in the White House a few years back that was 
trying to formulate policy for crypto.  You might need an FOIA to spring 
anything out of them, but do try.	

Good luck.
-- 
John K. Taber                        jktaber@netcom.com
