Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!ames!pacbell.com!att-out!cbnewsj!merckx!mab
From: mab@research.att.com (Matt Blaze)
Subject: metrics of security (was Re: PGP is most secure)
Organization: AT&T
Date: Sun, 14 Nov 1993 06:17:45 GMT
Message-ID: <mab.753257865@merckx>
Originator: mab@merckx
References: <1993Nov11.123743.1701@cs.aukuni.ac.nz> <gradyCGC77B.G5L@netcom.com>
Sender: news@cbnewsj.cb.att.com (NetNews Administrator)
Nntp-Posting-Host: merckx.l1135.att.com
Lines: 54

grady@netcom.com (Grady Ward) writes:
...
>Peter Gutmann (pgut1@cs.aukuni.ac.nz) wrote:
>: People have mentioned Norton's [In]Diskreet here recently and I thought I'd
>: have a look at it to see how good (or bad) its DES implementation really is (I
>: didn't bother with the "fast, proprietary method", by all indications it's
>: worthless).As the summary line in the header says, don't throw away your copy
>: of PGP yet.  For those of you who have a copy and would like a quick look at

>At a short talk to a user's group meeting on Wednesday, I reiterated the
>claim that PGP is the most secure encryption program available for
>users of pc that exists. I would love to have someone seriously dispute
>this claim, but continuing evidence such as Peter's keeps strengthening it.
...

While you might be able to claim that the cipher used by PGP is "stronger"
than the cipher used by Diskreet (based on things like the size
of the keyspace, etc), the concept of "most secure" goes well beyond
the underlying cipher.  Things like PGP encrypt individual files (and,
I assume, data streams) on demand, while things like Diskreet present
a file system interface that includes encryption as a basic feature.
If you're concerned with the security of data files that you're sending
over an insecure network to another machine, then you might be able to make
the case the strength of the cipher itself is the most important aspect of
the security of the system.  On the other hand, if you're interested in
protecting data in a whole system against compromise e.g., in the event a
disk is stolen, then the strength of the cipher is secondary to the question
of what parts of the system are encrypted and what are left in the clear.
PGP does not attempt to protect things like the cleartext of files before
they get encrypted (how can it? it hasn't even been run yet), cleartext of
deleted but not yet overwritten disk blocks, etc.  Then there are questions
of key management (can a bad guy learn the key easily?), user interface (is
it easy enough to use routinely? is it easy to inadvertently leave a file
in the clear?), etc.  Only after you fully understand the answers to these
issues is it appropriate to discuss the cryptographic properties of the
underlying ciphers.  So a claim of "most secure" depends a lot on context,
and can't be made without a lot of qualification.  It's all too easy to
get lost in the cryptanalysis.

Don't get me wrong, by the way - I'm not trying to say anything about 
the relative merits of these two particular systems.  Indeed, I've never
actually used Diskreet myself, and have no idea how well it does on any of
these points.

Ross Anderson had an excellent paper in this month's ACM Computer and
Communications Security conference in which he gave numerous examples
(mostly in the financial industry) of security systems in which the
cryptography may have been strong but the non-cryptographic aspects of
the system were so weak that it didn't matter.  I think this paper should
be required reading for anyone who's responsible for designing or
implementing a secure system, especially one over which he or she will
not exert complete control once it's deployed.

-matt
