Newsgroups: sci.crypt,sci.astro,sci.physics
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!mnemosyne.cs.du.edu!nyx10!pciszek
From: pciszek@nyx10.cs.du.edu (Paul Ciszek)
Subject: All the Computing Power in the Universe...
Message-ID: <1993Nov16.080519.8809@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu>
Followup-To: sci.crypt
Summary: It can't be done!
X-Disclaimer: Nyx is a public access Unix system run by the University
 	of Denver for the Denver community.  The University has neither
 	control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users.
Keywords: supernova,cryptography
Sender: usenet@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu (netnews admin account)
Organization: Nyx, Public Access Unix at U. of Denver Math/CS dept.
Date: Tue, 16 Nov 93 08:05:19 GMT
Lines: 49
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:21161 sci.astro:46745 sci.physics:67053


I have noted in sci.crypt some discussion of how much keyspace an
encryption scheme needs to be safe from exaustive searches by better and
better supercomputers.  I thought I could offer a fresh perspective on the
physical limits of computing power.  I have included sci.astro in the
distribution because the people there have kindly provided me with the
numbers that are used below; please direct all followups to sci.crypt.

One of the consequences of the second law of thermodynamics is that a
certain amount of energy is needed to convey or represent information; to
record a single bit by changing the state of a system requires an amount of
energy no less than kT, where T is the absolute temperature of the system
and k is Boltzman's constant.  Thus, it turns out that the amount of energy
available in the known universe sets a depressingly low limit on the amount
of computing that can be done.

Given that k = 1.381x10^-16 erg/K, and the ambient temperature of the
universe is 3.2K, an "ideal computer" running at 3.2K would consume at
least 4.4x10^-16 erg every time it set or cleared a bit.  (To run a
computer any colder than the cosmic background, we would have to expend
extra energy to run a heat pump.)  Now, the sun has an annual energy output
of 1.21x10^41 ergs.  This is enough to power 2.7x10^56 single bit "writes"
in our ideal computer; not quite enough state changes to put a 187-bit
counter through all of its values.  If we built a Dyson sphere of ideal
solar powered calculators and trapped all of the sun's radiant energy for a
thousand years, this massive processor might just be able to count to
2^196, but it would not be able to do any cryptographic work on a key that
size.  This limit has absolutely nothing to do with the technology of the
devices involved; rather, it is the maximum that thermodynamics will allow.

But why limit ourselves to the computing power of one mediocre star?  The
folks in sci.astro inform me that a typical supernova might release 10^51
ergs.  (A hundred times as much energy would be released in the form of
neutrinos; let'm go for now.)  If all of this energy could be channeled
into one epic orgy of computation, a 219-bit counter could be cycled
through all of its states.

I submit that keys longer than 250 bits will be secure from exaustive
searches until such time as computers are built from something other than
matter, and occupy something other than space.

(I would appreciate it if anyone from sci.physics could check this
reasoning; I remember the "1 bit requires kT" from an old article;
can anyone confirm it?)


Paul Ciszek                      When we are planning for posterity, we
                                 ought to remember that virtue is not
pciszek@nyx.cs.du.edu            hereditary.     --Thomas Paine
