Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!panix!not-for-mail
From: rpb@panix.com (Rob Brady)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Manual Encryption..
Date: 18 Nov 1993 01:12:38 -0500
Organization: PANIX Public Access Internet and Unix, NYC
Lines: 48
Message-ID: <2cf3om$c2e@panix.com>
References: <sebelt01.753564797@starbase.spd.louisville.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: panix.com

In <sebelt01.753564797@starbase.spd.louisville.edu> sebelt01@starbase.spd.louisville.edu (Shawn E. Beltz) writes:
>  But I really want a system that is almost undetectable..  For that matter,
>  any files on espionage/communication/whatever would be appreciated.

One way I have read about this being done is by having a sheet with holes
at appropriate places. You place this paper on top of another sheet and
write the message in the holes. You can then contrive words to go around
it. Something like


       SEND 

 HELP 
         QUICKLY
      LASSIE


would become

I am SENDing you this 
letter because I think you need
HELP with your English. I know
you don't speak very QUICKLY and
have only that LASSIE to talk to.

One that I am told was used during WWII was punching pinholes in a newspaper.
You would read the newspaper in order, and when a word you wanted to say
came up you would put a pinhole under it. Then you would forward the paper
to your cousin in Bulgaria, a common enough practice.

Something that is done more often is to use a code, rather than a cipher.
An example of this from a (the book) Patriot Games by Clancy is that when
the courier has to get out of the country because his cover has been blown
he goes to a payphone, calls his informer, and says something like, "Hello,
is Sue there."
"No. There is no Sue at this residence."
"Is this 555-1212?"
"No this is 970-LOTTO."
"Oh. It must be a wrong number."

This voluminous exchange just said, "My cover is blown. CYA." Essentially
unbreakable because it is used only once.



-- 
When I think back on all the crap I learned in high school        Rob Brady
I wonder how I can think at all    -- Paul Simon                  rpb@panix.com
