Path: msuinfo!caen!uunet!dove!csmes.ncsl.nist.gov!lynch
From: lynch@csmes.ncsl.nist.gov (Nicki Lynch)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security,alt.security.pgp
Subject: What information is out there?
Message-ID: <7885@dove.nist.gov>
Date: 8 Jan 93 20:38:47 GMT
References: <1993Jan7.115335.1216@cs.aukuni.ac.nz> <C0IFAw.3vy@bcstec.ca.boeing.com> <1993Jan8.173731.25964@shearson.com>
Sender: news@dove.nist.gov
Followup-To: sci.crypt
Organization: National Institute of Standards & Technology
Lines: 39
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:12650 alt.security:8853 alt.security.pgp:1034

I am part of a team preparing information for presentation at the
National Computer Security Conference in September 1993 in
Baltimore, MD.  We are interested in the resources available to
computer security practitioners.  This includes the various forums,
groups, or sites distributing computer security information.  For
example, here at the National Institute of Standards and
Technology, we have a computer security bulletin board which
provides computer security information and resources, as well as a
place for discussion.  As an adjunct, we have an anonymous FTP site
which offers our information in electronic downloadable form.  

We are familiar with RISK Forum, VIRUS-L, DOCKMASTER, and the
various newsgroups on Usenet (Alt.security and Comp.security.misc
among them) which have computer security discussions.  We're
interested in finding other resources; those resources might
include newsletters, forums, bulletin boards, information services,
clearinghouses, journals, electronic sites having computer security
information available on-line, and resources of computer security
training materials.  In short, what is available out there for the
computer security practitioner.

While primarily focused on services available to government
computer security practitioners, we are also interested in
resources and information of use to the rest of the community.  We
are especially interested in services on Internet and other nets
(such as Fido or Compuserv) or universities that offer computer
security information.  

The objective of our presentation is to let people know what is out
there, where it is "on the nets" and how to access it.

Any information would be welcome, along with suggestions about the
scope of the presentation. Please make the information on the
resources as specific as possible.  Thank you in advance.

Nickilyn Lynch
Computer Scientist, NIST
lynch@csmes.ncsl.nist.gov
(301) 975-4267
