Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!uunet!uunet.ca!rose!usenet
From: robert.heuman@rose.com (robert heuman)
Subject: RSAREF and RIPEM
Organization: Rose Media Inc, Toronto, Ontario.
Date: Sun, 10 Jan 1993 04:03:58 GMT
Message-ID: <1993Jan10.040359.18490@rose.com>
Sender: usenet@rose.com (Usenet Gateway)
X-Gated-By: Usenet <==> RoseMail Gateway (v1.70)
Lines: 33


Date Entered: 01-09-93 22:56
In my previous message I discussed the reasons why if Lotus Notes were 
only available with a 40 bit key length outside of the US and Canada, 
and I were in a another country I could not buy the product and expose 
myself to industrial espionage, knowing that my US competitor was 
using a 'more secure' version.  I could not remember the legal term at 
the time, but to clarify, I was talking about DUE CARE.  This is a 
real problem with the export restrictions imposed by the US Govt re 
crypto in export versions of products, as losing a DUE CARE suit 
exposes not only the corporation but the directors themselves, who may 
not even be employed by the corporation.  They can be PERSONALLY 
liable.  It obviously depends on the laws of the particular country.

I welcome any comments on the application of DUE CARE to this 
discussion re the difference between the domestic and export versions 
of US software products, and specifically ask about the European 
attitude, in conjuction with the PRIVACY requirement imposed under 
both the EEC and other (local) laws re this subject.  International 
telecommunications of certain information I know cannot be 
accommodated, particularly to North America, because the US and Canada 
do not have laws re privacy that match the stringent European rules. 
Crpto is one method of providing privacy over communications that dare 
note be sent in the clear.  If one KNOWINGLY uses an export version of 
a US software package, is one exposed to a DUE CARE suit in Europe, if 
a stronger crypto implementation is available locally? 

BTW, Happy end of the first week back after the New Year, everyone :-)

Robert (Bob) Heuman <robert.heuman@rose.com>
---
   RoseReader 1.70 P001886: This Canadian has an Opinion...His Own!
   RoseMail 2.00 : RoseNet<=>Usenet Gateway : Rose Media 416-733-2285
