Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Path: msuinfo!caen!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!umn.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: Zimmermann's responses to Sidelnikov's PGP critique
Message-ID: <1993Jan14.183744.27949@netcom.com>
Organization: Netcom - Online Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
References: <C0u14r.25v@ibmpcug.co.uk> <1993Jan14.104104.12909@netcom.com> <H0TWB5R@cc.swarthmore.edu>
Date: Thu, 14 Jan 1993 18:37:44 GMT
Lines: 38
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:12897 alt.security.pgp:1157


Let me be a bit clearer about my TeX message. First, thanks for those
who corrected me--it's available on more than Unix platforms.

But that wasn't my point. My point was that, as many have confirmed,
it's a typesetting language, not a language designed to communicate
mathematical formulae in human-to-human communications, where it does
not do the best job. Thus I found it inappropriate as a way to write
to Sidelnikov in a brief message (as distinct from passing him a paper
to be typeset). There is a huge world of people out there (and in
here) who use computers for electronic communications but do not
program, use typesetting languages, or any of the other arcana (and
yes, to many very smart people including some cryptologists,
professors, mathematicians, etc. they ARE arcana) of the computer
professions.

To see this more clearly, it would have, I assert, been ridiculous to
use Postscript to communicate the particular formulae in a net
message, from the point of view of my concern.

There are better ways to communicate formulae in a typed note than to
drop into typsetting mode, as most of the world who don't use
typesetting languages know.

As to some minor points, some have taken my use of "nerd"
pejoratively. I meant it as a narrow specialist, or "expert." I meant
in in the sense that people whom I respect, such as Bill Gates,
consider themselves nerds and have said so.

Finally, my point was independent of any other issues we've joined
here--those who see it as a continuation of some other argument by
other means are simply wrong in their attribution of motives to me.
Mind reading is always a bad way to conduct civilized discussion.

-- 
David Sternlight
RIPEM Public Key on server  --  Consider it an envelope for your e-mail

