Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!news.ans.net!newsgate.watson.ibm.com!yktnews!admin!wo0z!lwloen
From: lwloen@rchland.vnet.ibm.com (Larry Loen)
Subject: Spread Spectrum (was Re: AT&T News Release)
Sender: news@rchland.ibm.com
Message-ID: <1993Jan13.160205.15195@rchland.ibm.com>
Date: Wed, 13 Jan 1993 16:02:05 GMT
Reply-To: lwloen@rchland.vnet.ibm.com
Disclaimer: This posting represents the poster's views, not necessarily those of IBM
Nntp-Posting-Host: wo0z.rchland.ibm.com
Organization: IBM Rochester
Lines: 47

As a radio amateur, I have read some literature on spread spectrum
from time to time.

Basically, it doesn't have to be very fancy.  It does not have to
rely on secret algorithms or adaptively change frequencies.  In many
parts of the spectrum (particularly the misleadingly named "High
Frequency" or "HF" part), noise comes in random, static bursts that are pretty
impossible to predict.  The only value of sampling a new frequency is
for continuous occupation of a frequency.

However, even this is not strictly necessary.  Since one spends little
time on any given frequency, simply transmission over a sequence of
frequencies will work fairly well.  If spread spectrum is in wide use,
the literature I have read claims that fixed frequency stations will
only detect a general rise in the noise level.

Thus, even for nonsecret communication, spread spectrum is of interest.
Spread spectrum may permit something like a "soft" fill of the spectrum
(as opposed to the "hard" fill of individual stations on given frequencies).
It would be different from, but analogous to, how an Ethernet LAN fills up.
(In fact, it probably works better than Ethernet in its niche, but the
idea is similar).

However, it is probable that to start spread-spectrum, one would need to
get started on a fixed frequency and then "switch".  Of course, both
parties must agree on how to hop frequencies.

Keeping the sequencing secret allows secret communications, provided an
opponent cannot determine the sequence, but there is
nothing inherent in the technology that there must be a secret sequence
or an adaptive one.  For widespread use, it would presumably be standardized
and therefore nonsecret.

Those who are interested, and can brave the signal to noise, might go
on over to rec.amateur.radio.misc and ask about it.  If you're lucky,
you'll run into someone who has actually experimented with the technology.
But, there aren't that many.

Some sort of adaptive means might be of more interest in other parts of 
the electromagnetic spectrum.  In HF, it would be hard if not impossible
for two stations to come to the same decision about adapting; perhaps there
is a fixed, low-bandwidth subchannel to communicate frequency changes with
in the AT&T design?

-- 
   Larry W. Loen        |  My Opinions are decidedly my own, so please
    WO0Z                |  do not attribute them to my employer
