Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!uunet!usc!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!The-Star.honeywell.com!umn.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!rcain
From: rcain@netcom.com (Robert Cain)
Subject: Re: About spoof's again
Message-ID: <1993Jan16.022151.19309@netcom.com>
Organization: Netcom - Online Communication Services  (408 241-9760 guest) 
References: <1993Jan14.221806.22501@watson.ibm.com>
Date: Sat, 16 Jan 1993 02:21:51 GMT
Lines: 83

ggr@watson.ibm.com (Greg Rose) writes:
: 
: I think you are overlooking the fact that there are, as with all
: things, engineering tradeoffs here, and you have to decide what you
: are prepared to pay.  Your statement is very black-and-white;
: paraphrased (by me and I hope I'm not misrepresenting) "It is
: possible, although inordinately expensive, to spoof any public key
: protocol, therefore I'll use only private keys". My version of the
: engineering tradeoff is that "Since I think it is unlikely that anyone
: really wants to spend that much to spoof me, no matter how raunchy my
: love letters are, I'm prepared to use public key techniques so I can
: send them to people I've never met" :-).

I accept the monochrome nature of my statement but not the paraphrase.
It is not only possible, it is trivial to spoof any protocol so far
known that doesn't use shared secrets.  Any point to point box I could
design (and am so doing) can itself be used in pairs to spoof in a very
straightforward way.  The reason I am so concerned is that it is so
damned easy. :-)

: 
: Of course when I really care about knowing who I'm sending to, I'll
: make sure I've met them in person and exchanged passwords. Then I just
: have to hope that the password hasn't been tortured or drugged out of
: them (which is probably less expensive than successfully spoofing me
: from an intermediary position).

Believe me you really care unless you are only concerned about passive

One need not use PK.  If one uses PK it seems to me they are serious.
PK has the obvious advantage over passwords in that conversants can,
if patient, tell them over an insecure but separate channel. It still
requires that the channel be spoof-proof however and that seems to
me to take us back to square one.  Finding a tamper proof channel is
not easy in practice and if it is tamper proof it is more than likely
to be secure and obviates the PK advantage.  Hey, I like PK and want
very much to use it but close examination raises some serious problems
to my level of perception.

At the RSA conference held out here yesterday I got the chance to pose
the question of a spoof-proof protocol to Marty Hellman and Ron Rivest
in private.  Ron's immediate and adamant response was that a spoof-
proof protocol is in theory not possible.  He is sure he can prove it
but hasn't as yet.  Marty was not so sure.  His eyes went to the ceiling
and the brain started smoking.  He said, "Well, we do know one important
thing, if there is no spoof we have the same key on each end, hmmm." Ron
seemed to convince him though rather quickly but I don't think the matter
is as closed in his view.

Today I posed it to David Maher of AT&T and he took Ron's position,
also quite sure he could prove it.  Later I asked Whit Diffie and he
also agreed with Ron.  Doesn't look good from there.  I have an idea
though and it looks pretty good so far but in the good traditions of
secrecy and potential patents I'm just going to tease.

Along those lines, the RSA conference was quite good.  About 400
attended in Redwood Shores.  It was, of course, mainly aimed at
business but the crypto track was interesting if not startling.
No really great new ideas in my opinion.  Some good politics.  nist
and EEF were represented by Lynn McNulty and Dr. Dennis K. Brandstad
for nist and John Gilmore for EEF and Don Parker gave a mini-talk 
at John's request during John's Q&A.

I'm not adequate as a reporter but invite someone with such skills to
summarize the gist of the conference.  You all know that I am in bed
with RSA commercially and am very happy with their practices and their
cost reasonablness so I am sure you will take my observation with a
large dose of salt but I think quite a few people with strong anti-RSA
sentiments came away with a new paradigm.  It was a damn good place to
ask some smart people some tough questions.

Peace,

Bob

-- 
Bob Cain    rcain@netcom.com   408-358-2007

    'The meek shall inherit the earth--the rest of us will move on..'
                                                    Sameer Parekh


               PGP 1.0 or 2.0 public key available on request.
