Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!newsserver.jvnc.net!yale.edu!ira.uka.de!math.fu-berlin.de!mailgzrz.TU-Berlin.DE!Sirius.dfn.de!rzsun2.informatik.uni-hamburg.de!fbihh!bontchev
From: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de (Vesselin Bontchev)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Subject: Re: Zimmermann's responses to Sidelnikov's PGP critique
Message-ID: <bontchev.727107926@fbihh>
Date: 15 Jan 93 14:25:26 GMT
References: <C0u14r.25v@ibmpcug.co.uk> <1993Jan14.104104.12909@netcom.com> <H0TWB5R@cc.swarthmore.edu> <1993Jan14.183744.27949@netcom.com>
Sender: news@informatik.uni-hamburg.de (Mr. News)
Reply-To: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de
Organization: Virus Test Center, University of Hamburg
Lines: 97
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:13025 alt.security.pgp:1222

strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes (a lot):

Sigh... I sent my comments about David's message directly to him,
because I figured out that the whole net will flame him for his silly
mistake and I my comments won't add anything new. Alas, David has
cheerfully ignored all the points expressed insofar and continues to
spit nonsense...

[OK, flame on]

> Let me be a bit clearer about my TeX message. First, thanks for those
> who corrected me--it's available on more than Unix platforms.

You failed to notice the other, more serious corrections, that TeX is
a de facto standard for writing scientific documents that contain a
lot of complex formulas. That every self-respecting scientists knows
TeX a bit, even if not used in his/her practice. That even a person
with an average amount of brains will be able to read the article
posted by Neuhaus, because the formulas were not extremely complex and
TeX is pretty obvious most of the time... Insted, David now denies the
possibility that Sidelnikov -can- read/print/use TeX documents,
because he probably -does- have the amount of brains required for it -
something that David himself used to defend vigoriously. At last, he
completely misses the fact that Dr. Sidelnikov is obviously not
reading this newsgroup and only a remote possibility exists that
somebody is forwarding the appropriate messages to him - unless this
somebody has given up, having in mind the amount of sternnoise
here...

> But that wasn't my point. My point was that, as many have confirmed,

Your point is completely pointless, as usual.

> it's a typesetting language, not a language designed to communicate
> mathematical formulae in human-to-human communications, where it does
> not do the best job. Thus I found it inappropriate as a way to write

The last time I looked, the typesetting was a form of communication of
knowledge to other people. Unless they are too ignorant to understand
the knowledge in the first place, of course. And TeX -is- one of the
most convenient ways to express complex formulas in a text document,
so that the expression remains relatively understandable. Of course,
if you still do not understand, you can just save the message and run
TeX on it. TeX is available on almost any platform I know, yes,
including Unix and IBM PC. And yes, it is available in Russia too.

> to be typeset). There is a huge world of people out there (and in
> here) who use computers for electronic communications but do not
> program, use typesetting languages, or any of the other arcana (and

You don't need to be able to -use- the language. A little bit of
common sense is enough in most cases. Well, if you don't have even
this little bit of common sense, you can save the message in a file,
called message.tex and run the horribly sophisticated command

	tex message

> yes, to many very smart people including some cryptologists,
> professors, mathematicians, etc. they ARE arcana) of the computer
> professions.

A few postings of yours ago, you were arguing that Dr. Sidelnikov is
the new Einstein and has to be treated with due respect. So, even if
you don't know what TeX is and how to read a TeX-expressed formula,
maybe the new Einstein knows, huh? Don't deny him that possibility...

> There are better ways to communicate formulae in a typed note than to
> drop into typsetting mode, as most of the world who don't use
> typesetting languages know.

Better ways? Show us some. Describe the formula's in Neuhaus' article
"in a better way"... Besides, most of the scientific world -does- know
how to use such a popular typesetting language like TeX - or at least
can read it. But, of course, Mr. Sternlight does not belong to this
world...

> Finally, my point was independent of any other issues we've joined
> here--those who see it as a continuation of some other argument by
> other means are simply wrong in their attribution of motives to me.

Your point? What point? Lots of people wasted their time to show you
all the mistakes in your message and what is your point? Your point it
is paraphrase your old message and repeat "No, you are all wrong, I am
right"...

[no flame off, because I saw that he has posted a few other messages.
I had a chance, nevertheless, that he has not decidied to reply
publicly to all people who corrected him - to each in a separate
post...]

Regards,
Vesselin
-- 
Vesselin Vladimirov Bontchev          Virus Test Center, University of Hamburg
Tel.:+49-40-54715-224, Fax: +49-40-54715-226      Fachbereich Informatik - AGN
< PGP 2.1 public key available on request. > Vogt-Koelln-Strasse 30, rm. 107 C
e-mail: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de    D-2000 Hamburg 54, Germany
