Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!newsserver.jvnc.net!darwin.sura.net!haven.umd.edu!purdue!mentor.cc.purdue.edu!spaf
From: bishop@windsor.dartmouth.edu (Matt Bishop)
Newsgroups: alt.security,comp.org.sug,comp.org.usenix,comp.security.misc,comp.unix.wizards,sci.crypt
Subject: CFP Special Issue on Security [Change in Due Date]
Summary: CFP for special issue of Computing Systems.  Papers due June 1.
Message-ID: <C124H7.2sB@mentor.cc.purdue.edu>
Date: 18 Jan 93 13:04:30 GMT
Sender: spaf@mentor.cc.purdue.edu (Gene Spafford)
Reply-To: Matt Bishop <Matt.Bishop@dartmouth.edu>
Organization: Purdue University
Lines: 45
Xref: msuinfo alt.security:8885 comp.org.sug:783 comp.org.usenix:3751 comp.security.misc:2516 comp.unix.wizards:32706 sci.crypt:13036

[NOTE CHANGE IN SUBMISSIONS DUE DATE: IT IS NOW JUNE 1, 1993]

Matt Bishop will be Guest Editor of a special issue of the journal
"Computing Systems" to be published in 1993.  The issue will be
devoted to "Security and Integrity of Open Systems."  Papers on all
aspects of policy, issues, theory, design, implementation, and
experiences with security and integrity in open systems are solicited
for the issue.  The deadline for submissions is June 1, 1993; papers
submitted after this deadline will not be considered.  Prospective
authors should send five copies of their papers to:

    Professor Matt Bishop
    Mathematics and Computer Science
    Dartmouth College
    6188 Bradley Hall
    Hanover, NH  03755-3551
    (603) 646-3267
    Matt.Bishop@dartmouth.edu

Submissions should not have appeared in other archival publications
prior to their submission.  Papers developed from earlier conference,
symposia and workshop presentations are welcome.

"Computing Systems" is a journal dedicated to the analysis and
understanding of the theory, design, art, engineering and
implementation of advanced computing systems, with an emphasis on
systems inspired or influenced by the UNIX tradition.  The journal's
content includes coverage of topics in operating systems,
architecture, networking, interfaces, programming languages, and
sophisticated applications.

"Computing Systems" (ISSN 0895-6340) is a refereed, quarterly journal
published by the University of California Press for the USENIX
Association.  Usenix is a professional and technical association of
individuals and institutions concerned with breeding innovation in the
UNIX tradition.

Now in its fifth year of publication, "Computing Systems" is regularly
distributed to 4900 individual subscribers and over 600 institutional
subscribers (libraries, research labs, etc.) around the world.  Some
special-topic issues are often distributed more widely.

The editor-in-chief of "Computing Systems" is Mike O'Dell of Bellcore.
Gene Spafford of Purdue University is Associate Editor, and Peter
Salus of the Sun User Group is the Managing Editor.
