Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!dsinc!ub!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!sdd.hp.com!cs.utexas.edu!sun-barr!ames!olivea!uunet!portal!cup.portal.com!Christopher_C_Lapp
From: Christopher_C_Lapp@cup.portal.com
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: You're Knee-deep but Plaintext won't kill you!
Message-ID: <73819@cup.portal.com>
Date: 18 Jan 93 21:07:21 GMT
Distribution: usa
Organization: The Portal System (TM)
Lines: 41

Plaintext encryption has made it impossible to passively 
monitor an adversary and hope to gain any  true  
information.  What, then, should an intelligence agency do 
to defend against the plaintext threat?  Simple--end the 
passive and centralized approach to information gathering.
Information gathering is an activity that requires the party 
interested in gathering information to  give  a little in 
order to  receive.   That means creating controlled conflict 
and, much like a controlled nuclear reaction, force the 
individual and dangerous  particles  into close enough 
quarters where they react in a controllable fashion.  You 
must learn to  disactionate  or create actions where 
information not controlled by the adversary is generated.  
Studying the flow of this  pure  information through an 
organization will yield more truth than studying the output 
of the hostile organization.  I imagine a twenty-first 
century intelligence organization to be much like a First 
Boston Bond trading room--each  trader  making quick 
decisions within parameters, and doing their best not to get 
fried.  As a precaution, like the platinum-iridium scattered 
by the prehistoric meteor hitting the Earth, the new 
intelligence agency will mark each  job  or  trade  with a 
bit of unique information that will uniquely identify the 
 trade  as being from a  good  agency.  Like the Vietcong 
who placed a stick or a log in an odd location to warn 
everyone but the unsuspecting soldier of the booby-trap, 
U.S. intelligence will have its own value-based code that 
will give warning to other agencies that a scam is in the 
works.  Instead of relying on plaintext (which up until now 
has been regarded as  untarnished ) artificial knowledge 
created in a controlled evironment will be injected into a 
hostile organization, and all of the surveillance equipment 
amassed to date will be used to trace the ebb and flow of 
the artificial  dye  in the controlled conflict.  This will 
allow organizations to judge the true nature of power 
dissipation and information flow in an adversary s 
organization.  Ultimately, the U. S. intelligence agency will 
be able to predict and control the hostile agency, based on 
the fact that this methodology that I recommend is vastly 
superior to the blunt and outmoded Machiavellian 
empiricism that has characterized the Cold War Era.
