Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!newsserver.jvnc.net!yale.edu!qt.cs.utexas.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!pipex!demon!purplet!Owen.Lewis
From: Owen.Lewis@purplet.demon.co.uk (Owen Lewis)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: "Numbers stations"
Message-ID: <56.2B5B361C@purplet.demon.co.uk>
Date: 18 Jan 93 02:04:00 GMT
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk
Organization: FidoNet node 2:252/305 - The Purple Tentacle, Reading
Lines: 47


 -=> Quoting Chaim Manaster to All <=-

 CM> In the Short Wave Listner's list (SWL-L) on the internet, there has
 CM> recently been a thread about shortwave radio broadcasts (recievable
 CM> by anyone who tunes in) that have a announcer do nothing but
 CM> broadcast long sequences of numbers. No one on that list knows the
 CM> purpose of these broadcasts, though they speculate it is some sort
 CM> of code sent to "cia field agents" and the like, perhaps using a
 CM> one time pad.

 CM> Anyone in this group know anything about this (and free to
 CM> discuss it)?
 CM> Has anyone actually taken a crack at these "number broadcasts", if
 CM> not what might be a good attack strategy?

 As has already been said elsewhere, I believe these have now stopped. 
 At least, I've not heard "Magdeburg Mary" for quite some time.

 Mary's broadcasts were models of correctness. Five number groups, broadcast 
 in German monotone speech at an even speed. Each broadcast contained the 
 same number of groups and lasted for about the same time. This 
 indicates that dummy groups were being transmitted interspersed with real 
 messages. This considerably complicates the analysis of operational traffic. 
 
 Analysis of the voice modulation would show perfect 
 repetitions, indicating that the audio was assembled from recorded 
 fragments used over and over again. In theory at least, this would allow 
 for the constuction of encrypted audio messages from plaintext keyboard 
 input and also the automated production of plaintext from the spoken 
 cipher groups received. Of course, manual decryption would also 
 be possible, given the right key-pad.

 If is reasonable to assume that the groups transmitted were the product 
 of a 'one time pad' system, i.e. a substitution cipher with a key of 
 infinite length. The fact that the audio was in the German language was 
 of course no indicator as to the language of the plaintext, nor the 
 nationality or location of the intended recipients.

 A pretty fierce system to attack by cryptanalysis?

 I will be very interested to hear any views.


      Owen

___ Blue Wave/QWK v2.11
