Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!uunet!charon.amdahl.com!netcomsv!netcom.com!cliftonr
From: cliftonr@netcom.com (Pope Clifton)
Subject: Re: Something about cryptology
Message-ID: <1993Jan19.222030.16193@netcom.com>
Organization: Inst. for Epistemological Pathology
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL8]
References: <1993Jan15.085414.3196@netcom.com>
Date: Tue, 19 Jan 1993 22:20:30 GMT
Lines: 34

Pope Clifton (cliftonr@netcom.com) wrote:
: There are however, a large class of problems which have been demonstrated
: either to be computationally intractable or to be NP-complete (i.e. the time
: to solve the problem goes up at least exponentionally with the number of
: elements, and therefore a lower bound can be placed on the time required to
: solve the problem.)  My question is whether anyone has published any work on
: trying to derive public-key code systems from NP-complete problems?

  I've gotten a lot of emails pointing out that it is not at all proven
that NP != P, and that there is no guarantee of exponential solution times. 
Actually, I was aware of that -- I did some "Analysis of Algorithms" in
college -- but was speaking very loosely and leaving out a couple of steps
in my logic.

  To be more clear about this: All _known_ algorithms for solving
NP-complete problems take exponential time; moreover, there is no sign of
any improvements on the horizon, and there seem to be essentially no
mathematicians or computer scientists who believe that P = NP.  In addition,
any non-exponential time solution for NP problems would have so many
practical applications that it is hard for me to imagine that it could be
kept under wraps and used for code-breaking.  But yes, it is not _proven_
that NP-complete problems require NP time, and therefore it is not possible
to set a proven lower bound on the time to break codes based on them.  

  It is however possible to set a lower bound on the time to break them
assuming that there are no revolutionary breakthroughs overturning major
sets of expectations in mathematical computer science.  Better?

  -- Clifton

--
cliftonr@netcom.com     Home: +1 808 521 9073  Work: +1 808 625 3234
Clifton Royston, Pope of the Church of the Subgenius in Paradise
- Dissecting personal psychopathology at the edge of the 20th century -
