Path: msuinfo!caen!spool.mu.edu!olivea!uunet!pipex!demon!eloka.demon.co.uk!oml
From: oml@eloka.demon.co.uk (Owen Lewis)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Spycatcher
Message-ID: <728343480snz@eloka.demon.co.uk>
Date: 29 Jan 93 21:38:00 GMT
References: <1993Jan28.195009.19313@qualcomm.com>
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk
Reply-To: oml@eloka.demon.co.uk
Organization: Eloka Consultancy & Project Management
Lines: 71
X-Mailer: Simple NEWS 1.90 (ka9q DIS 1.19)

In article <1993Jan28.195009.19313@qualcomm.com> karn@servo.qualcomm.com writes:

>It does seem that the
>Soviets were fascinated with passive bugs. The most famous cause
>occurred in the late 1950's/early 1960s when the Americans discovered
>a passive bug hidden in a Great Seal of the US plaque that the Soviets
>had given to the US embassy in Moscow. The bug consisted of a small
>RF-resonant chamber with a thin diaphragm on one side. Sound waves
>impinging on the diaphragm would vary the chamber's resonant frequency
>slightly, and this could be detected by the returns from a microwave
>"probe" beam aimed at the embassy.

There is really only one form of passive bug (i.e. a small covert transmitter).
This is the remote-controlled variety. In this, the bugging transmitter 
remains switched off and inert until commanded into life by a signal - usually coded - to its associated receiver. Since the receiver must continually draw 
power, some very ingenious power management techniques can be employed to give an extended life to embedded batteries. Two other passive techniques can be 
used:
	a. Firstly, the interception of electro-magnetic fields associated with the electronic processing or communication of information. Variances in such fields may be reconstructed into intelligible information. Either the 
electrical or magnetic component of the field may be exploited in this way. 
Where the broadcast of information in not intended by the source, the threat 
of its covert collection is generically known as TEMPEST threat.
	b. The passage of an electronic signal by an interrogator through an 
area from which it is desired to extract information. Such a signal can in 
some circumstances be modified by the targets creation of information, even as the spoken word. An example would be micro-wave flooding. Another 
would be use of a laser. In both these examples, some intermediary medium
is required to phase shift and reflect a modulated interrogatory 
signal. For microwave, certainly, a resonant cavity is ideal but there are 
other 'trojans'.

>Reports of microwave radiation aimed at the US embassy continued for
>years past that (into the 1970s at least). Quite a bit of public
>hysteria ensued about the dire health consequences, and the press
>seemed to think it was a big mystery. My guess is that our government
>knew exactly what the microwave beams were for, but they were content
>to let the press dwell on the sensationalized health aspects instead
>of confirming what we later found out anyway -- that the US embassy in
>Moscow was riddled with bugs.
>
Microwave flooding is a bit passe. Unless effected by a government with 
substantial control over all spectral activity monitoring agencies the 
secrecy of such activity might not be maintained for more than a matter 
of hours. For example, were you or I to switch on (let's not even worry about
the siting of it) what amounts to an air defence target tracking radar in 
Central London or Washington, I think there'd be hell to pay and pretty damn 
quick! 

There are other passive information collection systems or devices ranging 
from hook-switch defeats to spike mics, audio induction tubes and ever 
onwards.

In conclusion, it is worth remembering in regard to 'Spycatcher'that Peter
Wright's main aim was to augment a government pension he felt to be unfairly 
meagre. In the process of doing this, he certainly did not tell all that he 
might have. Of those things he told, he has since said that he lied about some.

Perhaps, in all publishing, 'spy' journalism is the most prone to incorrect 
deduction, the deliberate plant and manipulation by vested interest. Caveat
emptor.  

Owen

                               -= Owen Lewis =-
                                      @
      Tele/fax  +44-(0)794-301731   ELOKA   Consultancy & Project Management
                            oml@eloka.demon.co.uk
                        pgp 2.x public key on request
