Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Path: msuinfo!caen!uunet!mcsun!fuug!anon
From: an8729@anon.penet.fi (Hank Pankey)
Subject: Anonymous posts (was: Using RSA for message encryption)
Message-ID: <1993Jan30.191406.16511@fuug.fi>
Sender: anon@fuug.fi (The Anon Administrator)
Organization: Anonymous contact service
X-Anonymously-To: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
References: <1993Jan29.223411.6962@fuug.fi> <7692.728366699@raisin.ucs.indiana.edu>
Date: Sat, 30 Jan 1993 19:06:21 GMT
Lines: 66
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:13348 alt.security.pgp:1344

From: Marc VanHeyningen <mvanheyn@whale.cs.indiana.edu>
> It's unfortunate that you posted this anonymously, as this kind of
> distracts from your arguments (which, while not compelling, are still
> interesting.)

From: jebright@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu (James R Ebright)
> I *HATE* anon posts.  I hope whoever posted this had a good reason for
> doing so,
> [...]
> I wish I knew who it was I agree with!  One of the reasons I like the
> Internet is it is a forum of ideas where the individual is still of
> importance...anon posts are just the opposite of PGP signed messages!

I'm surprised to see opposition to anonymous posts here on sci.crypt.
What is cryptography but an attempt to retain communications privacy?
Anonymity goes hand in hand with the concerns about privacy we discuss
here.  Why should I facilitate the collection of public information
about myself and my interests, if I don't want to?  Why shouldn't I be
able to participate in discussions, offer my ideas for criticism,
without revealing my name and address?

Anonymous mail and posting is also a method to defeat traffic
analysis.  The use of RIPEM or PGP to protect message confidentiality
is helpful, but they are of no use in keeping secret _who_ you are
communicating with.  The desire to keep that information secret is a
logical extension of the preference for encrypted messages.

I can understand that it may be disorienting for people to be faced
with a sourceless posting.  We try to put faces behind the messages we
read, at least unconciously.  But it's important to realize how
misleading the information can be that we see in typical postings.  We
see a posting coming from a certain site, we see the poster's name, in
most cases.  And this gives us a mental picture which we may use to
judge the claims and arguments made.  But there is no actual
verification that these images are correct.  People would do better to
judge each posting on its own merits than to allow themselves to be
fooled by misleading and unverified source information.

Anonymous mailing methods have been discussed many times in the crypto
literature, particularly in the papers of David Chaum.  The Eurocrypt
89 proceedings have a few papers on the topic.  It's a legitimate
issue for sci.crypt.

On a more positive note, there is no reason that an anonymous poster
cannot acquire a "net identity" based on the quality of his postings
over a long period of time.  He can even use PGP or RIPEM to sign his
messages so that you know you are dealing with the same person who
made earlier posts.  (Naturally, his key would not reveal his true
identity.)

Still, recognizing the human need to see a name behind this post, you
can call me:

"Hank"

-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
Version: 2.1

mQBNAitqzIsAAAECAMSiZVNOWI/GwlN0nqhi/RHtzSQ5p08e5I/TyQUZT61zgJ4z
IpEjlzMIZK3VMis6rnwBIfugjw2qbM2yXneQzqkABRG0C0hhbmsgUGFua2V5
=g3Qw
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To find out more about the anon service, send mail to help@anon.penet.fi.
Due to the double-blind system, any replies to this message will be anonymized,
and an anonymous id will be allocated automatically. You have been warned.
