Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!csn!yuma!ld231782
From: ld231782@LANCE.ColoState.Edu (L. Detweiler)
Subject: Privacy/Anonymity on the Internet - FAQ
Sender: news@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU (News Account)
Message-ID: <Jan30.061434.24054@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU>
Date: Sat, 30 Jan 1993 06:14:34 GMT
Nntp-Posting-Host: dolores.lance.colostate.edu
Organization: Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO  80523
Lines: 717


- - -

IDENTITY, PRIVACY, AND ANONYMITY on the INTERNET


(c) 1993 L. Detweiler.  Not for commercial use except by permission from author,
otherwise in the public domain.  Not to be altered.  Please credit if quoted.

PRELIMINARIES
=============

Hello. I think many would benefit from this creation, compilation, and
condensation of information from various sources regarding privacy, identity,
and anonymity on the internet. I'm committed to keeping this up-to-date WITH
strong feedback.  Why should YOU help?

-  Without feedback, this will eventually die with a whimper.
-  If you find this information useful or informative, you can
   repay the favor by sending me suggestions, recommendations, and 
   clarifications.
-  No item is too small or too trivial for me to look at!
-  Don't assume others will fill in something that is `well known'!
-  I've put in hours on this, can you put in a few seconds?
-  I can't be everywhere and know everything!
-  items with '(?)' are specifically areas that are weak and need either 
   expert opinion or simple input.
-  If you are a strong, reliable, or regular contributor I will give you 
   credit.

I hope to eventually make this a FAQ available on news.answers.  Until then
copies can be obtained from me via email.  Please do not post this to
newsgroups, but  instead let me know where you think it would be relevant.
Unfortunately these topics are spread out over many newsgroups.

Thanks!

ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu


CHANGE HISTORY
==============

1/29/93 v0.2 (current)

"identity" and "privacy" sections added.  "anonymity" expanded.  remailer
addresses removed due to lack of information and instability.  Posted
to sci.crypt.

1/25/93 v0.1

originally posted to the cypherpunks mailing list on 1/25/93 as a call
to organize a list of anonymous servers.


QUESTIONS
=========

(Search for <#.#>.)

IDENTITY
--------
<1.1> What is `identity' on the internet?
<1.2> Why is identity (un)important on the internet?
<1.3> How does my email address identify me and my background?
<1.4> How can I find out more about somebody with a given email address?
<1.5> Why is identification unstable and largely nonexistent on the internet? 
<1.6> What is the future of identification on the internet?

PRIVACY
-------
<2.1> What is `privacy' on the internet?
<2.2> Why is privacy (un)important on the internet?
<2.3> How private/secure is my account?
<2.4> How private/secure is my email?
<2.5> How do I provide more/less information to others on my identity?
<2.6> Who is my sysadmin?  What does s/he know about me?
<2.7> Why is privacy unstable and nonexistent on the internet?
<2.8> What is the future of privacy on the internet?

ANONYMITY
---------

<3.1> What is `anonymity' on the internet?
<3.2> Why is `anonymity' (un)important on the internet?
<3.3> How can anonymity be protected on the internet?
<3.4> How do I send anonymous mail?
<3.5> How do I post anonymously?
<3.6> Why is anonymity unstable and nonexistent on the internet?
<3.7> What is the future of anonymity on the internet?


* * *


IDENTITY
========

_____
<1.1>

What is `identity' on the internet? (email address)

Generally, today people's `identity' on the internet is primarily determined by
their email address in the sense that this is their most unchanging 'face' in
the electronic realm.   This is your login name qualified by the complete
address domain information, for example ``ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu''. 
 People see this address when receiving mail or reading USENET posts from you
and in other situations where programs record usage.  Some obsolete forms of
addresses (such as BITNET) still persist.

In email messages, additional information on the path that a message takes is
prepended to the message received by the recipient.  This information identifies
the chain of hosts involved in the transmission and is a very accurate trace of
its origination.  This type of identify-and-forward protocol is also used in the
USENET protocol to a lesser extent.  Forging these fields requires corrupted
mailing software at sites involved in the forwarding and is very uncommon.  Not
so uncommon is forging the chain at the origination point, so that all initial
sites in the list are faked at the time the message is created.  Tracing these
messages can be difficult or impossible when the initial faked fields are names
of real machines and represent real transfer routes.


_____
<1.2>

Why is identity (un)important on the internet?

The concept of identity is closely intertwined with communication, privacy, and
security, which in turn are all critical aspects of computer networks. For
example, the convenience of communication afforded by email would be impossible
without conventions for identification.  But there are many potential abuses of
identity possible that can have very severe consequences, with massive computer
networks at the forefront of the issue, which can potentially either  exacerbate
or solve these problems.

Verifying that an identity is correct is called "authentication", and one
classic example of the problems associated with it is H.G.Well's "War of the
Worlds" radio broadcast that fooled segments of the population into thinking
that an alien invasion was in progress.  Hoaxes of this order are not uncommon
on Usenet and forged identities makes them more insideous.  People and their
reputations can be assaulted by forgery.

However, the fluidity of identity on the internet is for some one of its most
attractive features. Identity is just as useful as it is harmful.  A professor
might carefully explain a topic until he finds he his talking to an
undergraduate. A person of a particular occupation may be able to converse with
others who might normally shun him.  Some prejudices are erased, but, on the
other hand, many prejudices are useful!  A scientist might argue he can better
evaluate the findings of a paper if he knows more about the authors.  Likewise,
he may be more likely to reject it based on unfair or irrelevant criteria.

Identity is especially crucial in establishing and regulating "credit" (not
necessarily financial) and "ownership" and "usage".  Many functions in society
demand reliable and accurate techniques for identification. Heavy reliance will
be placed on digital authentication as global economies become increasingly
electronic.  Many government functions and services are based on identification,
and law enforcement frequently hinges on it.  Hence, employees of many
government organizations push toward stronger identification structures.  But
when does identification invade privacy?

The growth of the internet is provoking social forces of massive proportions.
Decisions made now on issues of identity will affect many future users,
especially as the network becomes increasingly global, universal, widespread,
and entrenched; and the positive or adverse affects of these actions, intended
and inadvertent,  will be literally magnified exponentially.

_____
<1.3>

How does my email address identify me and my background?

Your email address may contain information that influences people's perceptions
of your background.  The address may `identify' you as from a department at a
particular university, an employee at a company, or a government worker.  It may
contain your last name, initials, or cryptic identification codes independent of
both.  In the US some are based on parts of social security numbers.  Others are
in the form 'u2338' where the number is incremented in the order that new users
are added to the system.

Standard internet addresses  also can contain information  on your broad
geographical location or nationhood.  However, none of this information is
guaranteed to be correct or be there at all.  The fields in the domain
qualification of the username are based on rather arbitrary organization, such
as (mostly invisible) network cabling distributions.  The only point to make is
that early fields in the address are more specific (such as specific computer
names or local networks) and the later ones the most general (such as
continental domains).

Gleaning information from the email address is sometimes an inspired art or an
inconsistent and futile exercise. For more information, see the FAQs on email 
addresses (?) and known geographical distributions.

examples:

jamison@csd4.csd.uwm.edu
  User named 'jamison' with university identified by uwm, probably in the 
  computer science
  department.
fred@inode.com
  User named 'fred' at the commercial company identified as 'inode'.
microman@black.ox.ac.uk
  An alias 'microman' for someone in the United Kingdom, possibly Oxford.

_____
<1.4>

How can I find out more about somebody with a given email address?

One simple way is to send email to that address, asking.  Another way is to send
mail to the postmaster at that address, although the postmaster's job is more to
help find user ID's of particular users.  The sysadmin (i.e. "root@address") may
also be able to supply information.  Users with related email address may have
information.  However, all of these methods rely on the time and patience of
others so use them minimally.

One of the most basic tools for determining identity over the internet is the
UNIX utility 'finger'.  The basic syntax is:

	finger user@here.there.everywhere

This utility uses communication protocols to query the computer named in the
address for information on the user named.  The response is generated completely
by the receiving computer and may be in any format.  Possible responses are as
follows.

-  A message `unknown host' meaning some aspect of the address is incorrect, two
lines with no information and '???'

-  A message 'In real life: ???' in which case the receiving computer could not
find any kind of a match on the username. The finger utility may return this
response in other situations.

-  A listing of information associated with multiple users. Some computers will
search only for matching user IDs, others will attempt to find the username you
specified as a substring of all actual full names of users kept in a local
database.

-  At some sites 'finger' can be used to get a list of all users on the system
with a "finger @address".  In general this is often considered weak security,
however, because "attackers" know valid user ID's to "crack" passwords.

More information on the fields returned by finger is given below.  More
information on finger and locating people's email addresses is given in the
email FAQ.


_____
<1.5>

Why is identification unstable and largely nonexistent on the internet?

Generally, identity is an amorphous and almost nonexistent concept on the
Internet for a variety of reasons.  One is the inherent fluidity of `cyberspace'
where people emerge and submerge frequently, and absences are not readily noted
in the `community'.  Most people remember faces and voices, the primary means of
casual identification in the 'real world'.  The arbitary and cryptic  sequences
of letters and digits comprising most email addresses are not particularly
noticeable or memorable and far from a unique identification of an individual,
who may use multiple accounts on multiple machines anywhere in the world.

Currently internet users do not really have any great assurances that the
messages in email and USENET are from who they appear to be.   A person's
mailing address is far from an identification of an individual.  First, anyone
with access to the account, e.g. they know the password, either legitimately or
otherwise, can send mail with that address in the From: line. Secondly, as part
of current mailing protocol standards, forging the From: line is a fairly
trivial operation for many hackers.  Much less forgable is the status and path
information prepended to messages by intermediate hosts. However, in general,
while possible, forgeries are fairly rare on most newsgroups and in email.

Besides these pathological cases there are simple problems with today's internet
protocols affecting identification on the internet. Internet mail standards,
described in RFC (?), are still evolving rapidly and not entirely orderly.  For
example, standards for mail address `munging' or `parsing' tend to vary slightly
between sites and frequently mean the difference between finding addresses and
bouncing mail (in other words, between identifying and contacting someone and
not).  Also, domain names and computer names are changed at sites.  Addresses
cannot be resolved when certain critical  computers crash, such as the receiving
computer or computers involved in resolving names into addresses.  A whole slew
of problems is associated with the "nameservers" in the latter category; if they
are not updated they will not find name addresses, and even the operation of
what constitutes "updating" has different interpretations at different sites.

The current internet mailing and addressing protocols are slightly anachronistic
in that they were created when the network was somewhat obscure and not
widespread, with only a fraction of the traffic it now sees.  Today a large
proportion of internet traffic is email, comprising  millions of messages.

_____
<1.6>

What is the future of identification on the internet?

Some new technologies and standards are introducing facial images and voice
messages  into mail and these will improve the sense of community that comes
from the familiarity of identification. However, they are not currently
widespread, require large amounts of data transfer, standardized software, and
make some compromises in privacy.

Promising new cryptographic techniques may make 'digital signatures' and
'digital authentication' common (see below).  Also, the trend in USENET
standards is toward greater authentication of posted information.  On the other
hand, advances in ensuring anonymity (such as remailers) are forthcoming.  See
below.


PRIVACY
=======

_____
<2.1>

What is "privacy" on the internet?

Generally, while "privacy" has multiple connotations in society and perhaps even
more on the internet, in cyberspace most take it to mean that you have exclusive
use and access to your account and the data stored on it and directed to it
(such as email) and you  do not encounter arbitrary restrictions or searches. 
In other words,  others may obtain data associated with your account, but not
without your permission.  These ideas are probably both fairly limiting and
liberal in their scope in what most internet users consider their private
domains.  Some users don't expect or want any privacy, some expect and demand
it.

_____
<2.2>

Why is privacy (un)important on the internet?

This is a somewhat debatable and inflammatory topic, arousing passionate
opinions.  On the internet, some take privacy for granted and are rudely
surprised to find it tenuous or nonexistent.  Most governments have rules that
protect privacy (such as the illegal search and seizure clause of the U.S.
constitution, adopted by others) but have many that are antithetical to it (such
as laws prohibiting secret communications or allowing wiretapping). These rules
generally carry over to the internet with few specific rules governing it. 
However, the legal repercussions of the global internet are still largely
unknown and untested (i.e. no strong legal precedents and court cases).  The
fact that traffic passes past international boundaries frequently complicates
and discourages its regulation.


_____
<2.3>

How private/secure is my account?

By default, not very.  There are a multitude of factors that may reinforce or
compromise aspects of your privacy on the internet.  First, your account must be
secure from other users. The universal system is to use a password, but if it is
"weak" (i.e. easy to guess) this security is significantly diminished. 
Frighteningly, certain  users of the system, particularly the administrator,
generally have unlimited access regardless of passwords, and may grant that
access to others.  This means that they may read any file in your account.

Furthermore, not universally known, UNIX  systems keep fairly extensive
accounting records of when and where you logged in, what commands you execute,
and when they are executed (in fact, login information is public). Potentially,
every keystroke you type could be intercepted by someone else.  System
administrators make extensive backups that are completely invisible to users
which may record the states of an account over many weeks.  Erased files can,
under some  operating systems, be undeleted.  Some software exacerbates these
problems.  For example, the widespread Xwindow system is extremely insecure;
anyone with an account on server machine can disrupt the display or read it
electronically.  There are no protections from this type of access (even the
"access control" xhost command can be evaded by regular users).  Generally, you
should expect little privacy on your account.

Be aware of the rights associated with your files and directories in UNIX. If
the 'x' right on your parent directory is off for users, groups, or other, these
users cannot gain information on anything in your directories.  Anything less
may allow others to read or delete files in your home directory.  By default
most accounts are readable only to the owner, but the initial configuration
varies between sites based on administrator preference.  The default file mode
specifies the initial rights associated with newly created files, and can be set
in the shell.  Consult man pages on "chmod".

Indepedent of malevolent administrators are fellow users, a much more commonly
harmful threat. There are multiple ways to help ensure that your account will
not be accessed by others, and compromises can often be traced to failures in
them:

- Choose a secure password.  Change it periodically.
- Make sure to logout.
- Do not leave a machine unattended for long.
- Make sure no one watches you when you type your password.
- Avoid password references in email.
- Be conservative in the use of the .rhost file.

Be wary of situations where you think you should supply your password.  There
are only several basic situations where UNIX prompts you for a password: when
you are logging in to a system or changing your password.  Situations can arise
in which prompts for passwords are forged by other users, especially in cases
where you are talking to them (such as Internet Relay Chat).  Also, be  aware
that forged login screens are one method to illegitimately obtain  passwords.


_____
<2.4>

How private/secure is my email?

By default, not very.   The characters that you are reading are almost certainly
encoded in ASCII, the American Standard Code for Information Interchange that
maps alphabetic and symbolic characters onto numeric codes and vice versa. 
Virtually every computer system uses this code, and if not, has ways of
converting to and from it.  When you write a mail message, by default it is
being sent in ASCII,  and since the standard is virtually universal, there is no
intrinsic privacy.

`Theoretically' people at any site in the chain of sites with access to hardware
and network media that forwards a given mail message over the Internet (globally
about a half-dozen (?) on average, depending on the distances) could potentially
compromise the privacy of that message and read it.  Technologies exist to "tap"
magnetic fields given off by electrical wires without detection. In reality
these breaches are generally unlikely and rare, with disturbing  but isolated
incidents known.  Something more common is instances of immature or unscrupulous
system operators reading private mail in the "spool files" at a local site (i.e.
the ultimate source or destination of the message), such as a university.

Note that bounced messages go to postmasters at a given site in their entirety. 
This means that if you address mail with an incorrect address it has a good
chance of being seen by a human other than the recipient.

Typically new user accounts are always set up such that the local mail directory
is private, but this is not guaranteed and can be overridden.

Most of these potential compromises in privacy can be avoided with the use of
strong cryptography, which has its own set of caveats (for example, 
unscrupulous administrators may still be a threat if the encryption site is
shared or not local).

_____
<2.5>

How do I provide more/less information to others on my identity?

The public information of your identity and account is mostly available though
the UNIX utility "finger" described above.  You have control over most of this
information with the utility "chfn", the amount varying  between sites.  You can
provide unlimited information in the .plan file which is copied directly to the
destination during the fingering.  Your signature is determined by the
environment variable SIGNATURE, and USENET signatures are usually kept in the
.signature file in your home directory. Many people put disclaimers in these
signatures that don't protect their identity but dissociate it from parent
organizations as a precaution.

Providing less information is more difficult and involved.  One approach is to
ask your system adminstrator to change or delete information about you (such as
your full name).  You may be able to obtain access on a public account or one
from someone unrelated to you personally.  You may be able to remotely login
(via modem or otherwise) to computers that you are not physically near.  There
are tactics for hiding or masking your online activities but nothing is
foolproof.  Consult man pages on the 'chmod' command and the default file mode. 
Generally, files on a shared system have good safeguards within the user pool
but very little protection is possible from corrupt system administrators.

To mask your identity in email or on USENET you can use different accounts. More
untraceable are new "anonymous posting" and remailing services that are very
recently being established.  See below.

_____
<2.6>

Who is my sysadmin?  What does s/he know about me?

The requirements and screening for getting a system administration job (and
access to all information on a system) vary widely between sites and are
sometimes frighteningly lax, especially at universities.  Many UNIX systems at
universities are largely managed by undergraduates with a background in
computing and often "hacking".  In general, commercial and industrial sites are
more strict on qualifications and background, and government sites are extremely
strict.

The system adminstrator (root user)  knows what commands you used and at what
times.  S/he may have a record of files on your account over a few weeks.  S/he
can monitor when  you send email or post USENET messages, and potentially read
either.  S/he may have access to records indicating what hosts you are using,
both locally and elsewhere.

As punishment or whatever, your system can revoke certain "privileges" such as 
emailing, USENET posting or reading certain groups, file transferring, remote
communications, or generally any subset of capabilities available from your
account.  This all is completely at the discretion of the local administrator
and under the local procedures followed at the site (which are generally
rather arbitrary).

_____
<2.7>

Why is privacy unstable and nonexistent on the internet?

For the numerous reasons listed above, privacy should not be an expectation with
current use of the internet.  Furthermore, large parts of the internet are
funded by the U.S. NSF (National Science Foundation) which places certain
restrictions on its use (such as prohibiting commercial use).  Some high-level
officials in this and other government agencies may be opposed to emerging
techniques to guarantee privacy (such as encryption and anonymous services).
However, traffic is generally completely unimpeded on the internet  and only the
most egregious offenders are pursued.  Currently significant portions of USENET
traffic, and less so internet traffic, are comprised of digitized images from
copyrighted material, including amounts labelled "pornographic" by many.

In some cases "abusive" posters to USENET are given admonitions from their
system administrators as urged by others on the "net".  However, some argue that
this is also used as a questionable means of attacking or silencing "harmless
crackpots".   Currently there are virtually no guidelines for restricting use to
any internet services and local administrators are free to make arbitrary
decisions. Perhaps the most common example of are the widespread occurrences of
university administrators refusing to carry some portion of USENET newsgroups
labelled as "pornographic".  The "alternative" hierarchy in the USENET system,
which has very few restrictions on propagation, is frequently targeted (although
this material may appear anywhere).

_____
<2.8>

What is the future of privacy on the internet?

Some argue that the internet currently has an adequate or appropriate level of
privacy.  Others will argue that as a prototype for future global networks it
has woefully inadequate safeguards.  The internet is growing to become a
completely global, international superhighway for data, and this traffic will
inevitably entail data such as voice messages, postal mail, and many other items
of extremely personal nature. Computer items that many people consider
completely private (such as their local hard drives) will literally be inches
from global network connections. Also, sensitive industrial and business
information is exchanged over networks currently and this volume may conceivably
merge with the internet.  Most would agree for these widespread uses, no
significant mechanisms are currently  in place to ensure much security.  New
standards are calling for uniform introduction of "privacy enhanced mail" (PEM)
which uses encryption technologies to ensure privacy, so that privacy protection
is automatic, and may significantly improve safeguards.

Some government agencies are opposed to unlimited privacy in general, and
believe that it should lawfully be forfeited in cases of criminal conduct (e.g.
court-authorized wiretapping).  However, powerful new technologies to protect
privacy on computers are becoming increasingly popular, provoking some to say
that "the cat is out of the bag" and the "genie can't be put back in the
bottle".  In less idiomatic terms, they believe that the spread of strong
cryptography already underway will be socially and technically unstoppable.  To
date, no feasible system that guarantees both secure communication and
government oversight has been proposed (the two goals are largely incompatible).
 The same technology that can be extremely destructive to privacy (such as with 
surreptitious surveilance) can be overwhelmingly effective in protecting  it
(e.g. with encryption).

ANONYMITY
=========


_____
<3.1>

What is `anonymity' on the internet?

Simply stated, anonymity is the absence of identity, the ultimate in privacy.
However, there are several variations on this simple theme.  A person may wish
to be consistently identified by a certain pseudonym and establish a reputation
under it in some area,  providing pseudo-anonymity.  A person may wish to be
completely untraceable for a single one-way message (a sort of "hit-and-run"). 
Or, a person may wish to be  openly anonymous but carry on a conversation with
others.  A user may wish to appear as a "regular user" but actually be
untraceable.  Sometimes a user wishes to hide who he is sending mail to (in
addition to the message itself).  All of these uses are feasible on the internet
but are currently tricky to carry out in practice, because of all the tracking
mechanisms inherent to operating systems and network protocols.  Officials of
the NSF and other government agencies may be opposed to any of these uses
because of the potential for abuse.  Nevertheless, the inherent facelessness of
large networks will always guarantee a certain element of anonymity.

_____
<3.2>

Why is 'anonymity' (un)important on the internet?

Anonymity is another powerful tool that can be beneficial or problematic.  It
may be the case that many strong benefits from its use will be discovered that
were unforeseen and unpredicted, because true anonymity has been historically
very difficult to establish.  One could use it to make personal statements to a
colleage that would sabotage a relationship if stated openly.  One can use it to
pass information and evade any threat of direct retribution.  For example,
whistleblowers on government abuses (economic, social, or  political) can bring
issues to light without fear of stigma and retaliation. Sensitive, personal,
potentially damaging information is often posted to some USENET groups, a risky
situation where anonymity would allow conversations to be carried on completely
independent of the identities of the participants.  Some police departments run
phone services that allow anonymous reporting of crimes; such uses would be
straightforward on the network. Unfortunately, extortion and harassment become
more insideous with assurances of anonymity.

_____
<3.3>

How can anonymity be protected on the internet?

The chief means, as alluded to above, are masking identities in email and
posting. However, anonymous accounts may be effective as well, but this use is
generally not officially supported and even discouraged.  The nonuniformity in
the requirements of obtaining accounts at different sites and institutions makes
anonymous accounts generally difficult to obtain to the public at large.

Many communications protocols are inherently detrimental to anonymity. 
Virtually every protocol in existence currently contains information on both
sender and receiver in every packet.  New communications protocols will likely
develop that guarantee much higher degrees of secure anonymous communication.

_____
<3.4>

How do I send anonymous mail?

One approach has been to set up an "anonymous server" that, when activated by
email to its address, responds by allocating and supplying an "anonymous ID"
that is unique to the person requesting it (based on his email address).  This
will vary for the same person for different machine address email originations. 
To send anonymous mail, the user sends email directed to the server containing
the final destination. The server "anonymizes" the message by stripping of
identification information and forwards the message, which appears to originate
from the anonymous server only from the corresponding anonymous user id.  This
is the "extended" use of anonymity or pseudonymity mentioned above.  Currently
the most stable of  this type of site is probably anon.penet.fi operated by
julf@penet.fi for several months.  Send mail to help@penet.fi for information.
Make sure to test the system at least once by e.g. sending anonymized mail
to yourself.  Make sure no signature data slips through.

Another more "fringe" approach is to run a "cypherpunk" remailer from a regular
user account.  No root system privileges are required. The user runs a process
on a machine that anonymizes mail sent to him with certain characteristics
(fields in the header). One has been implemented as a  PERL script running on
UNIX.  There are several of these in existence currently but are highly
unstable; they may be in operation outside of system administrator knowledge. 
The remailers don't generally support pseudonymity.  Generally the user of the
remailer has to disavow any responsibility for the messages forwarded through
his system, although actually may be held responsible regardless.

Both of these approaches have several disadvantages. The anonymous server
approach requires maintaining a mapping of anonymous ID's to real addresses that
must be maintained indefinitely.  One alternative is to allow "deallocation" of
aliases at the request of the user, but this has not been implemented yet. 
Traffic to any of these sites could conceivably be monitored, necessitating the
use of cryptography for basic protection.  Local administrators can shut them
down either out of caprice or under pressure from government agencies.
Unscrupulous providers of the services can monitor the traffic that goes through
them.  Most remailers currently keep logs that may be inspected.

Currently the most direct route to anonymity involves using SMTP protocols to
submit a message directly to a server with arbitrary field information.  This
practice, not uncommon to hackers, is generally viewed with hostility by most
system administrators.  Information in the header routing data and logs of
network  port connection information may be retained that can be used to track
the originating site.  In practice, this is generally infeasible and rarely
carried out.  Some administrators on the network will contact local
administrators to request a message be tracked and its writer admonished or
punished more severely (such as revoking the account), all of this actually
happening occasionally but infrequently.

_____
<3.5>

How do I post anonymously?

For this use anonymous servers have been established as well with all the 
associated caveats above (monitored traffic, capricious or risky local
circumstances, logging).  anon.penet.fi operated by julf@penet.fi can be used
here too; mail to help@penet.fi for information.  Make sure to test the system
at least once by e.g. anonymous posting to misc.test.  Make sure no  signature
data slips through.

Another direct route involves using NNTP protocols to submit a message directly
to a newserver with arbitrary field information.  This practice, not uncommon to
hackers, is also generally viewed with hostility by most system administrators,
and similar consequences can ensue.

_____
<3.6>

Why is anonymity unstable and nonexistent on the internet?

As noted, many factors compromise the anonymity currently available to the
general internet community, and these services should be used with great
caution.  To summarize, the technology is in its infancy and current approaches
are unrefined, unreliable, and not completely trustworthy.  No standards have
been established and troubling situations of loss of anonymity and bugs in the
software are prevalent.  (For example, one  anonymous remailer reallocated
already allocated anonymous addresses.  Others passed signature information
embedded in messages unaltered.)  Source code is being distributed, tested, and
refined for these systems, but standards are progressing slowly and weakly.  The
field is not likely to improve without  official endorsement and action by
network agencies.  The whole idea is still viewed with suspicion and distrust by
many on the internet and seen as illegitimate or favorable to criminality.

A very sophisticated anonymous posting system was recently set up by
dclunie@pax.tpa.com.au that used cryptography in both directions (to/from) the
server for the highest degree of confidentiality seen so far.  However, it was
running on a public access account, and he had to shut it down after receiving
requests and conditions apparently ultimately originating from NSF
representatives.


_____
<3.7>

What is the future of anonymity on the internet?

The future of anonymous services on the internet at this time is highly
uncertain and fraught with peril.  Nevertheless, its widespread introduction and
use may be inevitable and its implementation could carry significant and
unforeseen social repercussions.  However, if its use is continued to be
generally regarded as subversive it may be confined to underground.



--

ld231782@longs.LANCE.ColoState.EDU
