Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!jvnc.net!darwin.sura.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!uakari.primate.wisc.edu!usenet.coe.montana.edu!ogicse!verdix!islabs!fasttech!zeke
From: zeke@fasttech.com (Bohdan Tashchuk)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Hardware random number generators compatible with PCs?
Summary: any cheap PC-compatible hardware available?
Message-ID: <1992Oct25.224554.1853@fasttech.com>
Date: 25 Oct 92 22:45:54 GMT
Organization: Fast Technology
Lines: 49

The recent post on building a random number generator using a zener diode got
me to thinking once again about commercial alternatives.

I haven't seen any commercial alternatives discussed here recently. And since
the market is so specialized, they may well exist but I'm simply not aware of
them.

The ideal product would have the following features:

	* cost less than $100
	* use a radioactive Alpha ray emitter as the source
	* connect to an IBM PC serial or parallel port
	* be "dongle" sized, ie be able to plug directly onto the port, and
		not have a cable from an external box to the port
	* be powered directly from the port
	* generate at least 1000 "highly random" bits per second

Details:

Certainly in high volume these things can be made cheaply. Smoke detectors
often sell for under $10, and have a radioactive source, an IC, a case, etc.

Using a well-designed circuit based on Alpha decay should mean that the
randomness is pretty darn good.

Everyone these days has either a serial or parallel port available, either
directly or thru a switch box.

The tiny "dongle" size is a convenience. If it is small and powered directly
from the port, there are no cables to get in the way. There is enough power
available from the signal lines on these ports to power simple devices. E.g.
most mice don't require an external power supply.

For most applications 1000 bits per second should be adequate. For example,
it would be quite adequate for session keys. For generating pseudo
one-time-pads, an overnight run should generate plenty of values. Continuously
generating values for a month would produce about 300 MB, which should be
enough to exchange new CD-ROM key disks once a month.

Problems:

The obvious one is volume. If only a few hundred or a few thousand people in
the world want something like this, it can't be built for cheap.

Mathematicians and like people would probably want several orders of magnitude
more bits per second. Although if these things are cheap enough, people with a
real need could parallel them.

Any comments?
