Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!jvnc.net!darwin.sura.net!spool.mu.edu!decwrl!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: A Trial Balloon to Ban Encryption?
Message-ID: <1992Oct26.203050.14752@netcom.com>
Date: 26 Oct 92 20:30:50 GMT
References: <1992Oct26.180813.7002@netcom.com>
Organization: Netcom - Online Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
Lines: 44


Timothy C. May posts a concerned message about the proposal that crypto
keys be registered with the government. I share his concerns, but need
to point out a philosophical error that weakens his arguments.

He says "Granted, there are serious national security threats in using
modern crypto methods..." I think this reflects mental co-option by
the ideas of the Feds. Let's recall that fundamentally, there's nothing
wrong with encryption. There's nothing, even, wrong with encryption
in aid of espionage or other criminal activity. It's the espionage
or other criminal activity that's wrong.

The law enforcement and intelligence agencies have gained much
invaluable national security and anti-crime information through
cryptanalysis. But this activity is based on their skill, not on
circumscribing the rights of the rest of us, particularly the right
to feel secure in our persons and property.

One might as well argue that assassination of foreign leaders (after
proper safeguards) should be made legal because "there are serious
national security threats" otherwise. There ARE limits in a civilized,
constitutional society.

Now the intelligence and anti-crime services, like the proverbial
camel with his nose under the tent, want to redefine what they've
accomplished by skill as a "right" of theirs, and obtain legislation
to force others to give it to them in the face of new technology, by
compulsory and ubiquitous wiretap installations (which we are assured
will only be activated with a court order--remind anyone of any other
place and time?) and now we see this proposal for compulsory access to
encrypted traffic (of course only with a court order). Try to "take
back" your key and your previous traffic if a future bureaucracy eases
the protections.  It's happened before, and secretly.

I am as eager as anyone to promote our own counterespionage and to
stop crime. But there are limits in a free society, and this is one of
them.  It's particularly ironic that this threat to our freedoms comes
at a time when the stakes (nuclear annihilation through a U.S./Soviet
exchange) have diminished.

By the way, there's nothing in my correspondence that I fear anyone
else reading; I see this as a very clear issue of our national
principles, and what I was educated to believe are fundamental
American freedoms.
