Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:10076 alt.privacy:4552
Path: msuinfo!caen!spool.mu.edu!decwrl!hal.com!hasse.hal.com!howard
From: howard@hasse.hal.com (Howard Gayle)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy
Subject: Key registration in historical perspective
Followup-To: alt.privacy
Date: 28 Oct 1992 16:30:41 GMT
Organization: HaL Computer Systems, Inc., Campbell, California
Lines: 41
Message-ID: <1cmf7iINNt9@hal.com>
Reply-To: howard@hal.com (Howard Gayle)
NNTP-Posting-Host: hasse.hal.com
Summary: In the long run it will fail, but we may all be dead.
Keywords: public key, cryptosystems

Every new communications technology has been seen by some as a
threat to security, public order, or morality.  This includes
books (especially cheap books printed with printing presses
using movable type), newspapers, theaters, mail, movies,
telephones, radio, television, videos, BBSs, computer networks,
and now public key cryptosystems.  Governments and
quasi-governmental agencies often tried to control, regulate, or
monopolize these technologies.  For example, in England at one
time printing presses required a government license, and it was
illegal to have an unlicensed printing press.

In the long run, government attempts to control new
communications technologies have been unsuccessful, but the long
run can be centuries.  For example, it was not until a series of
U.S. Supreme Court cases in the last few decades that print
media became practically free of government controls (except for
very limited areas.)

New technology is often used to escape government controls on
earlier technology.  For example, FAX technology is being used
to bypass government postal monopolies.  If the historical
pattern continues, any government attempts to enforce key
registration will be ultimately unsuccessful.  New technology is
likely that would make it unsuccessful.  This includes ways to
hide encrypted messages in innocuous data, and satellite
communications systems outside the reach of any particular
government.  The tremendous improvement in computer
price/performance ratios will contribute, as will cheap,
widespread basic rate ISDN.

In the short run, unfortunately, government attempts to enforce
key registration would harm innocent people.
--
Howard Gayle
HAL Computer Systems, Inc.
1315 Dell Avenue
Campbell, California 95008
USA
howard@hal.com
Phone: +1 408 379 7000 extension 1080
FAX  : +1 408 379 5022
