Xref: msuinfo alt.privacy:4574 sci.crypt:10178
Newsgroups: alt.privacy,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!shearson.com!snark!pmetzger
From: pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (Perry E. Metzger)
Subject: Re: Key registration in historical perspective
Message-ID: <1992Oct28.221842.4055@shearson.com>
Keywords: public key, cryptosystems
Sender: news@shearson.com (News)
Organization: Lehman Brothers
References: <1cmf7iINNt9@hal.com>
Date: Wed, 28 Oct 1992 22:18:42 GMT
Lines: 35

In the midst of an excellent article howard@hal.com (Howard Gayle) writes:
>Governments and
>quasi-governmental agencies often tried to control, regulate, or
>monopolize these technologies.  For example, in England at one
>time printing presses required a government license, and it was
>illegal to have an unlicensed printing press.

I'll point out until recently this was true in the Soviet Union --
Xerox machines were also strictly controlled since they could be used
for free communication unmonitored and uncontrolled by the government.
This is true even today in China. The notion that governments must be
able to restrict and monitor all communications isn't new, and is
still present in much of the world. Wouldn't it be sad if we took
steps in the US towards the same thing?

People forget that governments are not trustworthy. Here in the US we
are spoiled -- we have had a stable and fairly free regime for over
two centuries. However, this is rare. Most of the world has had
revolutions upheavals at frequent intervals. Wouldn't it be a shame if
we set up our system so as to assure that a dictatorial regime could
be successful? Consider that with the capacity to easily and
conveniently monitor all communications and with the population
effectively disarmed for the first time in US history we would have
already put into place the infrastructure for a lasting tyranny.

In particular, we must remember that not only can individual keys be
taken by corrupt officials at a key registry under our current system,
but that the whole thing can be siezed wholesale by a new and
dictatorial regime.

--
Perry Metzger		pmetzger@shearson.com
--
"They can have my RSA key when they pry it from my cold dead fingers."
Libertarian Party info: Phone 1-800-682-1776, E-Mail 345-5647@mcimail.com
