Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!destroyer!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!torn!cunews!csi.uottawa.ca!kwhite
From: cbbrowne@csi.uottawa.ca (Christopher Browne)
Subject: Various Tangents (was Re: PGP *2.0* available)
Message-ID: <1992Oct6.192856.12630@csi.uottawa.ca>
Sender: kwhite@csi.uottawa.ca (Keith White)
Nntp-Posting-Host: prgv
Organization: Dept. of Computer Science, University of Ottawa
References: <BvE5yD.14L@exnet.co.uk> <1992Oct4.075456.11026@cactus.org> <BvnqH7.32C@exnet.co.uk>
Date: Tue, 6 Oct 92 19:28:56 GMT
Lines: 49

Would it not be appropriate for people to at least change the subject
line once in a while?

PGP *2.0* has now been "available" for a while, and the subject line
"PGP *2.0* available" really ought to be applied to messages
concerning the availability of the program.  It would be relevant to
messages where new FTP sites are announced; it would be relevant to
questions like "Where can I get it?"

Many of the discussions that have gone under this subject line REALLY
should fall under a subject like: "Key Transmission."

And I think a good point has been brought up:

For most of the people playing with PGP, the actual security of the
system is really not ALL that important.

If someone is REALLY interested in security, it is because there are
two or more people that have some CRITICAL communications.  And
they'll be willing to put the time and effort in to use the key system
exactly as it was designed; they'll use some system of key exchange
that is sufficiently independent that they WON'T have spoofing
problems.  They will NOT be using finger to check the key!

They'll dictate armour code numbers over the telephone if they have
to; they'll more likely send a printout/disk containing the keys
through the mail.  Since the data is IMPORTANT, and they NEED to send
it safely, they'll KNOW one another sufficiently well that TRUST won't
be quite the same issue that it is for those that would like to send
encrypted email around for fun.

What's important for most of the people around here is that playing
with PGP is FUN.  

- It's FUN to feel that you get to "fool" sundry government agencies
- It's FUN to try to figure out ways of breaking the system
- It's FUN to try to figure out ways of strengthening the system

There may be a few professionals around this group; most of the people
here probably aren't, at least with respect to cryptology.

Now can we start putting just a little bit of the creativity into the
subject lines?  Thanks!

-- 
Christopher Browne
cbbrowne@csi.uottawa.ca
University of Ottawa
Master of System Science Program
