Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!darwin.sura.net!newsserver.jvnc.net!yale.edu!yale!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Subject: Triple DES
Message-ID: <930331165037.669079@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Date: Wed, 31 Mar 1993 16:50:00 GMT
Lines: 44


>for securing files using DES.  As I have heard this involves encrypting the
>file with key A, then decrypting it with key B and reencrypting the output
>of that step with key A again.  Is this correct?  If so, this means one has
>to deal with two keys...is there any way get the same level of security
>with just one key?

First, this is not quite correct.  The particular implementation
that you speak of was intended to solve some special problems.

The mechanism that you describe is not really triple DES; it is
double DES.  While it introduces triple DES complexity, it only doubles
the key size.  An exhaustive attack, would only have to deal with
a 112 bit key.  (Estimated by the inventors of the method to be
equal to all of the energy from all of the coal and oil likely to 
recovered in the continental United States for the next 500 years).


This implementation has the special property that if the key is chosen 
so that the second 56 bits are the same as the first, then the
first two steps cancel out.  This would preserve backward compatibility
between this hardware implementation and previous software
implementations.
This might permit a user to back up the hardware with software.

Note that the implementation of this strategy using three hardware engines
adds only a small propagation delay.  However, in software, presumably
reusing the same single engine, it would more than double the time
required.  

True triple DES would involve three encrypt steps and 168 bit key; cheap
enough, but overkill for almost all DES applications.  Most DES applications
involve short messages with short life and frequent key changes.  Double or
triple DES are only indicated for very large files which must be able to 
withstand attacks lasting decades.

So true triple DES involves a triple length key.  Since the cheapest and
easiest known attack (Biham-Shamir notwithstanding) is an exhaustive
attack against the key, no strategy that does not involve more than 56 bits in
the key will likely increase the cost of attack. 

William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104; New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
1-0-ATT-0-700-WMURRAY; WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
