Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!tamsun.tamu.edu!henrik
From: henrik@stat.tamu.edu (Henrik Schmiediche)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Subject: Some questions on IDEA, PGP & DES
Date: 1 Apr 1993 06:02:42 GMT
Organization: Dept. of Statistics, Texas A&M University
Lines: 46
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <1pe0i3INNf78@tamsun.tamu.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: data.tamu.edu
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:14731 alt.security.pgp:2316



     Hi,
I have a potpourri of questions concerning the IDEA encryption algorithm
within PGP and DES. Any knowledgeable answers, posted or e-mailed, would
be appreciated.

1) Is using IDEA restricted in the USA?

2) Assuming the answer to question #1 is no: Is using the
   IDEA encryption algorithm within PGP illegal (ie. using
   PGP to encrypt data, without using the RSA component of PGP)?

3) When decrypting a file with PGP, PGP says (assuming you have
   the correct password), "Pass phrase appears good.". How does
   PGP know the pass phrase is good? Wouldn't this kind of
   knowledge be very useful in a brute force (or other) type
   attack on PGP IDEA ciphertext?

4) Does the IDEA encryption algorithm "gain strength" using
   double or multiple encryption?

5) Where can I find a good PD or free unix/msdos implementations
   of DES? One that is suitable for triple DES encryption (it seems
   to me all DES should be able to do triple encryption, right?).
   The operative word here is "good", there seem to a variety
   of DES programs floating around, any that are particularly
   attractive to users who use DES regularly?

6) Are there any "free" programs available that perform IDEA
   encryption outside of pgp?

7) Was IDEA designed as a replacement for DES? If so, won't the fact
   IDEA is patented severely limit its use? (I realize patented does
   necessarily mean restricted, but from what I gather royalties/license
   is generally required for the use of IDEA. Please correct me if I
   am wrong).


Thanks for any info, help, pointers to text files, etc.

    - Henrik

--
Henrik Schmiediche, Dept. of Statistics, Texas A&M, College Station, TX 77843
E-mail: henrik@stat.tamu.edu  |  Tel: (409) 845-9447   |  Fax: (409) 845-3144
