Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!darwin.sura.net!haven.umd.edu!uunet!pipex!marble.uknet.ac.uk!uknet!pavo.csi.cam.ac.uk!tmal
From: tmal@cl.cam.ac.uk (Mark Lomas)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Time stamp authentication
Message-ID: <1993Apr1.164521.2426@infodev.cam.ac.uk>
Date: 1 Apr 93 16:45:21 GMT
References: <01050810.tubspl@mbeckman.mbeckman.com>
Sender: news@infodev.cam.ac.uk (USENET news)
Reply-To: Mark.Lomas@cl.cam.ac.uk
Organization: U of Cambridge Comp Lab, UK
Lines: 43
Nntp-Posting-Host: nene.cl.cam.ac.uk

Consider an advertisement of the following form:


    To whom it may concern.

    On Thursday 1st April 1993 Mark Lomas created a secret document.  He
    appended a 512 bit random number, so as to make its contents
    unpredictable, and then hashed the result using the NIST Secure Hash
    Standard Algorithm.  The result is the value 172643....927.


If I later reveal the document and the random number then, provided
you can find anybody you trust who received the advertisement on 1st
April, you know that either I originated the document by that date
or I have a way of finding collisions in the SHS - we hope the former.

The service on which I advertise such values does not get to see my
document.  It need not even understand the authentication protocol: I
could advertise in the personal columns of The Times newspaper.

The random number is used to Bowdlerise the document - it's like a
confounder used in certain cryptographic protocols.  This is to ensure
that if you get hold of a copy of my document you can't check whether
this is what I registered without my cooperation.

When compared with schemes that require a trusted server to process
the document this is rather more efficient on network bandwidth but
we can improve the process even further:

I maintain some state information - in fact the result of the previous
hashed value.  Before hashing a file I append the previous hash; thus
I chain together my documents.  The published hash corresponds to the
most recent of a chain of files dating back over the previous week.
By publishing this value I can prove that all of the documents in the
chain predate the publication of the final hash.  I might therefore
take out an advertisement each week that, by publishing a single hash
value, can register all of my documents created that week.

For a company that wishes to register its engineering notes (in case of
a later patent dispute) but which wishes to keep these confidential,
a weekly newspaper advertisement might be a sound investment.

	Mark
