Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!darwin.sura.net!udel!news.intercon.com!psinntp!shearson.com!snark!pmetzger
From: pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (Perry E. Metzger)
Subject: Re: Seeding PGP 2.2 to your BBS
Message-ID: <1993Apr1.200536.11452@shearson.com>
Sender: news@shearson.com (News)
Organization: Partnership for an America Free Drug
References: <1993Mar29.131236.2633@vixvax.mgi.com> <1993Mar30.103450.15683@wixer.cactus.org>
Date: Thu, 1 Apr 1993 20:05:36 GMT
Lines: 38

cat@wixer.cactus.org (Dr. Cat) writes:
>I'm not certain I understand what exactly the concern is here.  Is the issue
>that some hacker might replace a valid copy of PGP with a tampered copy that
>encrypted files in a weak, easily decrypted fashion, but still provided the
>same user interface, appearing to be a valid copy?  I think this is fairly
>unlikely to happen. 

Its trivial to do. It requires only minutes to make the needed
alterations to make every message you produce breakable and then
recompile and upload.

>And even if someone did it, the existence of the
>tampered version would become known as soon as someone with a tampered copy
>tried to exchange encrypted files with someone with a valid copy.

Nope. Its easy to do this without having the problem show up. Just
tamper with the algorithm to generate session keys such that the
session keys tend to be selected from a small set -- no one will ever
notice. Remember, by the way, that most BBSes completely trust their
uploads provided that they aren't virus infected.

I don't think that you understand how to make sure that your PGP is
safe, or the risks involved. This is not a joke -- PGP is not a toy.
You might want to read the "for paranoids" section in the README file
(which I wrote, btw.) 

Verifying that your PGP is good, at least assuming that you already
have a good PGP, is easy. The way to do it is to A) Have an old/known
good PGP, 2) Check signatures on the downloaded file using the old
PGP.  This of course requires that you trust the signer, but since
people who are part of the PGP cabal and have widely known public keys
have been signing all recent releases, there has been little or no
problem.

--
Perry Metzger		pmetzger@shearson.com
--
Laissez faire, laissez passer. Le monde va de lui meme.
