Newsgroups: alt.security.pgp,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!csus.edu!netcom.com!grady
From: grady@netcom.com (1016/2EF221)
Subject: Re: MSDOS password generation programs
Message-ID: <gradyC4v3wp.6Iz@netcom.com>
Organization: capriccioso
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL6]
References: <1pg5qsINN17p@smurf.sti.com>
Date: Fri, 2 Apr 1993 15:19:37 GMT
Lines: 48
Xref: msuinfo alt.security.pgp:2347 sci.crypt:14774

Alaric Tekiahyn (alaric@sti.com) wrote:
: 
: If you want to pick a good pass phrase, grab an obscure but easily memorized
: phrase out of your favorite book, or song, or movie.  For example....
:   ..."Hasta la vista, baby."
:   ..."There can be only one."
:   ..."Use the Force, Luke."
:   ..."You're all just a pack of cards!"
:   ..."Nights in white satin, never reaching the end..."
:   ..."Your android replica is playing up again (it's no joke)"

Unfortunately here are some extremely BAD examples of passphrases.

The entire script of Star Wars is available via anonymous ftp
as is most sing lyrics to both folk, pop, rock, etc.  So several
of the above examples of passphrases is IMMEDIATELY broken.

And I happen to personally know that the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department and by hearsay, the FBI, has net access
and is modifying the front ends of PGP to run dictionary
attacks RIGHT NOW.

A much better universal scheme for constructing your passphrase
is to invent a nominally nonsense sentence.  The sentence
should contain material "shockingly obscene or violent material"
(whatever is shocking in your cultural milieu).

For example,

Fecal dildos bite molding testicles
Tolstoy eviscerates anacephalic jalapeno niggers
Blended animals, like CEO's, make bloody clots

Since you will never write this down and you are never
going to tell anyone (right?) there is no need to
be nice; be as shocking and memorable as you can.

If your system does not accept passphrases then
just take the initial letter from each word in your
memorable passphrase making sure of course that it
is otherwise acceptable in complexity.

This is best passphrase generation scheme that I've
uncovered.  Any other suggestions would be most welcome.
 
-- 
grady@netcom.com  2EF221 / 15 E2 AD D3 D1 C6 F3 FC  58 AC F7 3D 4F 01 1E 2F

