Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!ames!network.ucsd.edu!qualcom.qualcomm.com!servo.qualcomm.com!karn
From: karn@servo.qualcomm.com (Phil Karn)
Subject: Re: Hard drive security for FBI targets
Message-ID: <1993Apr3.193644.17825@qualcomm.com>
Sender: news@qualcomm.com
Nntp-Posting-Host: servo.qualcomm.com
Organization: Qualcomm, Inc
References: <C4u3A6.6B7@cs.uiuc.edu> <1993Apr2.050451.7866@ucsu.Colorado.EDU> <1993Apr3.152834.3569@infodev.cam.ac.uk>
Date: Sat, 3 Apr 1993 19:36:44 GMT
Lines: 39


An approach that may be helpful here is the "homomorphic cipher". The
ciphertext from these systems produces a different, plausible
plaintext depending on which key you use.  If you get rubberhosed into
revealing a key, you give them the one that reveals some innocuous
ciphertext.  Or some semi-sensitive information you are entitled to
have, and could reasonably be expected to encrypt (like personal
business records, assuming they are clean, of course).

Several years ago I proposed one such system. It's crude, but
effective.  First you encrypt your sensitive information (the stuff
you really want to protect) with a conventional cipher such as DES,
memorizing the key.  Then you XOR the ciphertext with a copy of "War
and Peace" (or whatever "decoy" plaintext you have chosen). Then store
both the original ciphertext and the final ciphertext, preferably in
separate locations to gain credibility. If they are seized and you are
compelled to decrypt it, you simply explain that you are an amateur
cryptologist playing around with one time pads, and that the first
file is the pad for the second. They XOR the two files, and sure
enough, out pops a copy of "War and Peace".

The problem, of course, is the doubling of storage requirements, but if
you do it in disk space that would otherwise be unused anyway, it
could be quite practical.

They may suspect (having read this article) that more is hidden, but
how could they prove it? Given that one can *never* prove that a
seemingly random stream of bits is in fact totally random and not a
ciphertext produced by an unknown cipher and/or key, defeating
this scheme would require an absolutely fundamental change in the
American legal system: the presumption of innocence would have to be
changed to a presumption of guilt, with the defendant required to prove
his innocence.  This is the inescapable logical conclusion of the line
of reasoning that says "key registration is OK", and it is highly
disturbing that otherwise intelligent individuals like Dorothy Denning
refuse to acknowledge it.

Phil

