Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!yale.edu!yale!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Subject: Licensing of public key implementations
Message-ID: <930403152101.890833@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Date: Sat, 3 Apr 1993 15:21:00 GMT
Lines: 47


I am going to draw an inference.  In doing so, I am going to 
rely only on evidence that has been presented in this forum.
However, in doing so, I should point out that I am a friend of
Jim Bidzos and a long-time observer of the NSA.  I am not aware, 
that in reaching the inference, I am drawing on any special
knowledge not available to regular readers of this forum.
Nonetheless, it is not likely that the inference is at great 
odds with that historical knowledge.

I am going to suggest that there is a secret, if informal and
perhaps only tacit, agreement between RSA and NSA, that, it in
return for unspecified favors (including freedom from 
harassment), RSA will not grant licenses for INDEPENDENT
implementations of public-key cryptography. 

If Public Key Partners did not exist, NSA would have to invent
them.  If you believe, as I do, that NSA has a vested interest
in resisting all non-NSA-controlled use of cryptography, then
it is useful to them to have a limited number of choke points
at which to exercise control. 

I think that the existence of such an agreement is not unlikely
and that its existence would account for a great deal of 
otherwise inexplicable behavior.  In the absence of such an
agreement, no one, least of all RSA, has been able to provide
a satisfying explaination for the fact that RIPEM, which
uses RSAREF, is readily licensed, while PGP, which does not, is
not.

I caution readers not to not draw any additional confidence in
this speculation from the silence on it of the two parties.
I would be surprised beyond belief if either party ever 
commented on this suggestion.  If such an agreement exists, it
would be a violation of it for RSA to comment.  If it does not,
RSA will treat it as such speculations deserve to be treated.
NSA never comments but only smiles knowingly.

At one level, I regret this kind of theological speculation; I prefer 
to deal with propositions that can be proved or disproved.  However, I regret
it less than I regret the institutional conditions that results in the
need for it.  On the other hand, there is some perverse comfort that,
while it may be resisted, my speculation is not likely be to refuted.

William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104; New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
1-0-ATT-0-700-WMURRAY; WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
