Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.org.eff.talk
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!wupost!csus.edu!netcom.com!grady
From: grady@netcom.com (1016/2EF221)
Subject: Re: Illegal Wiretaps (was Denning's Trust)
Message-ID: <gradyC50nJw.835@netcom.com>
Organization: capriccioso
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL6]
References: <1ppg02$i2k@bigboote.WPI.EDU>
Distribution: inet
Date: Mon, 5 Apr 1993 15:11:55 GMT
Lines: 41
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:14843 comp.org.eff.talk:16659

Mr. Neat-O [tm] (ear@bigwpi.WPI.EDU) wrote:
: 
: Pardon me, but isn't this very illegal?  I was under the impression that a
: warrent *is* needed to get this information out of the phone company in
: order to protect people's privacy.  A local (Worcester, MA) police officer 

More than fifteen years ago now I worked for a PI firm in Tacoma, WA that had
regular visits from the regional director of the FBI (David Gerard).  On  
one occasion right after Gerard left after meeting with owner of the agency,
the owner came to me and handed me a telephone number.  This number was
an *unlisted* number that a client of mine -- an estranged husband -- needed
in order to continue harassing his wife who had changed her phone number.

I wondered how the owner could obtain such a number when the phone company
presumably guards unlisted numbers with a zeal. Right?  The owner told me
that in return for his information to Gerard about drug trafficking on 
"South J" (a black area of town), he would do certain favors in return,
such as going to the telephone company and getting these kinds of records.

At the time (and undoubtedly still today) the phone company routinely gave
out these kinds of records just on the personal request of an agent, a
police officer or other officials.  Needless to say the poor woman couldn't
understand why she started getting the (presumably) abusive calls again...

And while I did complain to the internal affairs unit of the FBI, and was 
even interviewed by a couple of agents, it seemed their job was to confirm 
that I did not have any physical evidence of this collaboration.

Special Agent Gerard retired after a few years, an honored servant of the people 

PGP is available from:

nic.funet.fi
ghost.dsi.unimi.it
black.ox.ac.uk
leif.thep.lu.se

.
-- 
grady@netcom.com  2EF221 / 15 E2 AD D3 D1 C6 F3 FC  58 AC F7 3D 4F 01 1E 2F

