Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security
From: oml@eloka.demon.co.uk (Owen Lewis)
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!wupost!uunet!pipex!bnr.co.uk!demon!eloka.demon.co.uk!oml
Subject: Re: Crypto and public policy 
Distribution: world
References: <C4xuDM.3z9@demon.co.uk>
Organization: Eloka Consultancy & Project Management
Reply-To: oml@eloka.demon.co.uk
X-Mailer: Simple NEWS 1.90 (ka9q DIS 1.19)
Lines: 83
Date: Thu, 8 Apr 1993 01:22:38 +0000
Message-ID: <734232158snz@eloka.demon.co.uk>
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:14897 alt.security:9887

In article <C4xuDM.3z9@demon.co.uk> gtoal@gtoal.com writes:

>:>Most of the laws regarding eavesdropping in the UK are of the form 'you can
>:>listen but if you repeat or use what you here you'll be arrested'...

>Don't know the actual acts, but that's the rule about listening to
>police radios.  And bugging, isn't it?  You should know...

The fundamental difficulty in the United Kingdom is that our law has 
developed with only a very weak concept of privacy, though many 
individuals may have a very well developed sense of privacy (albeit usually 
their own). The rate at which surveillance of several types is growing in 
British society should cause alarm but, instead, is generally viewed as a 'good 
thing'.

The police have already started to move toward the bugging of cells and 
interview rooms and are succeeding in getting evidence so obtained accepted 
by the courts. So much for the absolute privilege of counsel to confer 
privately with their clients. 

Nevertheless, eavesdropping first entered English law as an offence in 
1360.  Indeed, that common law offence remained our main protection until the 
1980's. Protection against electronic eavesdropping specifically was 
additionally effected under a variety of incidental legislation. Operating a 
bugging transmitter was (and is) an offence under the various Wireless 
Telegraphy Acts as operating a transmitter without a licence or operation not 
within the terms of a licence. The Wireless Telegraphy Acts also made it an 
offence to act upon information received from governmental or some other 
broadcast signals, such as those of the emergency services. None of these 
proscriptions are effective in preventing bugging, but a prosecution may be 
brought if an act of bugging has already been discovered. Telephone taps, 
other than under warrant, were pursued as 'thefts of electricity'.

Note the proclivity to act against the technical means of eavesdropping 
rather against the 'real' offence of breaching privacy and causing loss or 
other harm through the compromise of confidential information. However, in a 
country that has never defined any right to privacy, what else could be done?

The situation started to change when, in 1984, a new Telecommunications Act 
made it an offence to attach any equipment at all to the PSTN that had not 
been officially approved. What few realise is that approval can not only be 
witheld on technical grounds but also on grounds concerniny the propriety (not
legality) of the equipment's application. This was followed in 1985 by the 
Interception of Communications Act which made it a specific criminal offence 
with severe penalties to tap or bug the PSTN unless authorised by law to do so.
However, this law would not seem to cover either privately telecommunication 
systems or the planting of bugs/taps on the terminal equipment side of a PABX 
attached to the PSTN. The Act also specifically exempts the interception of 
PSTN calls while being transmitted by wireless telegraphy, e.g. either a 
PSTN microwave shot, cordless phones or an entire cellphone system. 

Given the weakness with which any right to privacy is maintained in UK law, 
you might expect a freedom loving people - as the British mainly are -  to 
clamour for strong cryptography end-to-end on their electronic 
communications........no; well, not yet anyway. Naturally, successive British 
governments of both main parties have accepted that the governance of the 
country was best effected with the use of cryptography, other than 
governmental hands either strictly liceenced or forbidden not, in most cases, 
by law but by administrative regulation. Large corporations have been 
able to obtain licences for specified and approved cryptographic equipments 
but, until very recently the cost of hardware implementations was such as to 
rule them out for general use. 

The cost of good comunication security has fallen to a point where it is no 
longer a major consideration. The British public are just beginning to wake 
up to the fact that electronic surveillance is both widespread and not too 
difficult. Without legislation with teeth, that defines and protects the 
citizen's right to privacy, the pressure on Parliament to relax the various 
controls on the use of cryptography may grow. However, be sure that any 
relaxation will be slow and reluctant. The fear of strong cryptography in the 
hands of criminal or othe inimical parties will remain a driving force. 

But we shall see. For cryptography, the tide is running. Follow-ups to 
alt.security.

-- 

                               -= Owen Lewis =-
                                      @
      Tele/fax  +44-(0)794-301731   ELOKA   Consultancy & Project Management
                            oml@eloka.demon.co.uk
                        pgp 2.x public key on request

