Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!uunet!psinntp!iat.holonet.net!rkinder
From: rkinder@iat.holonet.net (Robert J. Kinder)
Subject: DaVinci e-mail encryption question
Message-ID: <C5CLFr.InJ@iat.holonet.net>
Organization: HoloNet National Internet Access BBS: 510-704-1058/modem
Date: Mon, 12 Apr 1993 01:57:26 GMT
Lines: 39

Does anyone know if the e-mail encryption used in DaVinci E-mail 2.02A for
Microsoft Windows is secure?  "Secure" in this context means the algorithm
is cryptographically strong, it properly implemented (no plain text files
left laying around or passwords), and has no back doors.

This is running on a Novell network and MS-Windows 3.1.

I called DaVinci tech support at 1-800-488-TECH and spoke to two of their
support people.  The DaVinci personnel would not reveal the algorithm,
it's implementation, or whether they are back doors.  The guy did say the
e-mail encryption was being used at several gov't and military sites.  I
asked if DaVinci could show certification or compliance with any gov't
data security standards, etc.  The answer was "No.".

However, the guy at DaVinci said the U.S. gov't recently approved the
exportation of DaVinci e-mail with the encryption option to several
foreign countries(!).  Jeesh!  Like if the gov't ever gives away the "good
stuff".

The tech support guy also said that the encryption has never been broken. 
Umm, ok.  DaVinci e-mail is used at major corporations, etc.  Therefore,
there sure to be *lots* of interesting e-mail msg traffic.  Suppose I've
written a program that can decrypt msgs given only the cipher text.  Who in
their right mind would "go public" with this capability?  That would stop
the flow of encrypted e-mail and all the juicy information.

Can anyone shed some light on this subject?

BTW, if you're using a permanent or temporary "swap file" with MS-Windows,
it *will* contain disturbing amounts of "plain text" e-mail messages. 
This is due to Windows swapping data and code segments to/from disk. 
Don't use a swap file if you have 16MB of ram.

  
-- 
// rkinder@holonet.net                              Daleen Systems, Inc.  -
// Robert J. Kinder, Jr.                             Boca Raton, Florida  -
// Software Engineer                                      1-800-989-4774  -
// "We're having a real Ted Bundy day here." - C. Bernholtz
