Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!ogicse!news.u.washington.edu!wcn
From: wcn@u.washington.edu (W C Newell Jr)
Newsgroups: news.admin.policy,comp.admin.policy,sci.crypt,comp.mail.mime
Subject: Re: PEM and MIME
Message-ID: <1qfi4bINNqk3@shelley.u.washington.edu>
Date: 13 Apr 93 23:24:59 GMT
Article-I.D.: shelley.1qfi4bINNqk3
References: <C5AH24.EsF@zoo.toronto.edu> <1993Apr12.023902.21103@r-node.hub.org> <C5Dzuw.CH6@zoo.toronto.edu>
Distribution: world
Organization: University of Washington
Lines: 58
NNTP-Posting-Host: orac.biostat.washington.edu
Originator: wcn@orac.biostat.washington.edu
Xref: msuinfo news.admin.policy:4998 comp.admin.policy:3003 sci.crypt:15004 comp.mail.mime:804

In response to my earlier question about why there is such urgency to merge
PEM and MIME, I've been given some technical details by e-mail.  I've also
been assured that, as a matter of policy, I will be free to write my own
MIME-compliant application without having to support PEM, which was my main
concern.  I'm sorry if my question caused any confusion among vendor-lurkers.

I've also been taken to task for my statement that "MIME is a stopgap
solution."  The following excerpt helps me clarify my point.

In article <C5Dzuw.CH6@zoo.toronto.edu> henry@zoo.toronto.edu (Henry Spencer) writes:
>MIME does provide for sending a message which contains multiple versions
>of the content, so that you can ship (say) both a PostScript copy and
>an ASCII-characters copy of a diagram, and the recipient will see the
>best one that his hardware/software can display.
>
>Many of the facilities of MIME are potentially very useful even if you
>don't have a fancy display; MIME is not just multi-media.

What MIME does, precisely, is to enhance the SMTP transport to allow sending
object data types of arbitrary format, with some type descriptor included to
allow the receiving end to identify the object.  Such objects may be embedded
(one level only) in the message or included as attachments.  This functionality
allows MUAs and other client-server applications (e.g. news) to recognize such
objects and use some add-on software tool to operate on them.

What MIME does >not< do is to specify which commonly-accepted object data
types, if any, must be recognized in order for an application to be considered
MIME-compliant, nor does it say anything about how such objects should be
treated.  Such rules are entirely at the discretion of the application
designer.  Just because your MUA and mine are both MIME-compliant does not
mean that I can send you Postscript attachments or multimedia objects and have
you interpret them.  You'll get the data, but the MUA may very well ignore it.
You then have to extract the data manually and view it using some other piece
of software, if you have one.

Before we can have a global multimedia e-mail solution, there must be some
definition of a minimum service level, and MIME does not provide for this
(yet).  There exist reasonable models for such a definition on some of the
desktop platforms, e.g. the Microsoft Windows/MPC standard.  I'm told that
Microsoft has promised to include MIME in the next release of their SMTP
gateway product, which has some exciting prospects.  At the very least, it
should encourage more developers to make their applications MIME-compliant.
It also makes possible, at least in theory, the use of existing proprietary
multimedia e-mail solutions, such as the Windows NT MUA, over the Internet.

IMHO, we have a long way to go before the Unix-specific MUAs, newsreaders, etc
reach the service levels of the other commercial platforms.  There ought to be
such a definition, consisting of known object data types and rules for their
handling, included in the transport specification document.

Disclaimer:  My views are extremely un-PC at my site.  One of my former
colleagues has already seen fit to jump into this thread and disclaim me.
To the half dozen or so readers who don't yet understand how Usenet works,
I speak for no one other than myself.

--
Bill Newell
wcn@u.washington.edu
