Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!nigel.msen.com!sdd.hp.com!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!swrinde!network.ucsd.edu!qualcom.qualcomm.com!servo.qualcomm.com!karn
From: karn@servo.qualcomm.com (Phil Karn)
Subject: Re: Keeping Your Mouth Shut (was: Hard drive security)
Message-ID: <1993Apr14.055903.5358@qualcomm.com>
Keywords: cooperation
Sender: news@qualcomm.com
Nntp-Posting-Host: servo.qualcomm.com
Organization: Qualcomm, Inc
References: <Apr13.011855.69422@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU> <1993Apr13.143712.15338@cadkey.com> <1993Apr13.214520.2075@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu>
Date: Wed, 14 Apr 1993 05:59:03 GMT
Lines: 47


The case in question (a woman landing in jail for contempt for not
telling a court where her daughter is) differs from the subject here
(revealing encryption keys) in one very significant respect: the
information being sought by the court was not something that would
have tended to implicate her in a crime. She refused to disclose the
information simply because she didn't want the court to tell her
ex-husband where her daughter was. That's not covered by the Fifth
Amendment.

If the information could have been considered incriminating, then she
could have taken the 5th and in theory the judge could not legally
hold her in contempt of court.

I say "in theory" because in another case, a woman was held in
contempt for refusing to reveal the location of her child even after
taking the 5th. In this case, the woman was suspected of having
murdered the kid, so taking the 5th wasn't surprising. Sure, so she
was probably guilty, but that's not good enough. In our system you're
not supposed to be able to force a suspect to confess to a crime, no
matter how strongly you think they're guilty.  You have to develop
your evidence independently. Doing otherwise might catch a few more
crooks, but only at the cost of turning the clock back to the middle
ages, when confessions were routinely tortured out of suspects both
guilty and innocent.

But in this case the Supreme Court voted to turn the clock back.  They
ruled that the contempt citation was valid on what was essentially a
technicality -- she had been in a social program in which she had
already agreed to reveal information about her kid to the social
workers on demand, and by refusing to do so she was breaking this
agreement. I think this set a very bad precedent, but unfortunately
the Supreme Court doesn't think much of the Bill O' Rights these days.
(This case was written up in the book "In Our Defense - The Bill of
Rights in Action" by Ellen Alderman and Caroline Kennedy.)

As for compelling the disclosure of crypto keys that have been used to
encrypt information that might incriminate you, the issue has
apparently never gone to court. I've heard lawyers make strong claims
both ways. Mike Godwin, in particular, argues strongly that the Fifth
Amendment would *not* protect you. Again, with the current Supreme
Court I wouldn't be surprised if he were right.

So don't give up on those steganographic schemes just yet. They can't
force you to reveal the key to encrypted data they don't know exists.

Phil
