Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!darwin.sura.net!haven.umd.edu!uunet!ddsw1!chinet!schneier
From: schneier@chinet.chi.il.us (Bruce Schneier)
Subject: Re: FOLLOWUP:  Opinions of RC2 algorithm
Message-ID: <C5I9nE.IA@chinet.chi.il.us>
Organization: Chinet - Public Access UNIX
References: <1qcqgk$cfh@bilbo.suite.com>
Date: Thu, 15 Apr 1993 03:28:26 GMT
Lines: 52

>What I get from exchange is that the RC2 algorithm does not have to remain  
>unpublished in order to maintain its special export status.  RSA says that it  
>is not publishing RC2 to protect its intellectual property.

This is what RSADSI has told me as well.

>One thing I wonder is whether or not the RC2 algorithm is patented.  Is it  
>possible to patent an algorithm without revealing how it works?

RSADSI claims that their algorithm is unpatented.  While is is not possible to
patent the algorithm without revealing how it works, you only have to reveal
how the algorithm works after the patent is awarded.  It is certainly 
possible for RSA to start the patent process on RC2/RC4 in secret, and stall
the issuance of the patent as long as they can.  This way they get the benefit
of secrecy, and if someone does manager to steal the algoritm they get the
protection of a patent.

Note that I have no evidence that RSADSI is doing this.  In fact, I have
been told directly by Jim Bidzos that they are not.  It is, however, a
clever ploy.

>If it is not patented, does that mean someone could disasseble a program that  
>uses RC2 and legally post the algorithm to the Net?

Reverse engineering is legal (look up the Sega vs. Accolade decision),
provided is is done properly.  I suggest a "clean room" dissassembly,
where the person who does the dissassembly communicates to the person doing
the recoding only through a design specification.  This way there are no
charges of stealing the actual code.

There are other ways around this. You could use an anonymous posting service
to post the fruits of your labor.  You could find someone in another country
to do the dissassembly and coding (it is unlikely that the algorithm is 
patented in Finland, for example).

Personally, I think it would be a great service if someone would disassemble
and code a public domain version of RC2 and RC4.  I suspect the NSA would
be pissed, though.  I would consider publishing a legal version of either
algorithm in my book, but I don't know if I would want to be the first.  And
I would need to be very sure that it is legal.

RC2 and RC4 are in lots of programs; Lotus Notes is probably the most common.
I suspect that manufacturers use the object-code module from RSADSI, so the
code should be nice and compact and easy to dissassemble.

>If I were RSADSI, I would patent the algorithm.

So would I, which is why I suspect that they may have started the process.
They already have most major software manufacturers on board; what do they
have to lose now?

Bruce
