Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!saimiri.primate.wisc.edu!usenet.coe.montana.edu!news.uoregon.edu!netnews.nwnet.net!spiff.seattleu.edu!thebes!ole!rwing!pat
From: pat@rwing.UUCP (Pat Myrto)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: THE CLIPPER CHIP: A TECHNICAL SUMMARY
Message-ID: <2122@rwing.UUCP>
Date: 27 Apr 93 20:53:05 GMT
References: <1993Apr19.182327.3420@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu> <2094@rwing.UUCP> <strnlghtC5yH1F.1q7@netcom.com>
Organization: Totally Unorganized
Lines: 57

In article <strnlghtC5yH1F.1q7@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:
>
>Pat Myrto says if law enforcement wants keys, let them get a court order and
>then ask him for them.
>
>Most use of probably cause wiretapping warrants isn't to decrypt historical
>traffic, but for prospective listening once probably cause is established.
>Pat's approach would tip off the crooks.

Not necessarily.  If probable cause exists, do the tap and record the
traffic, digitally if necessary (I am sure the Feds can figure out a
way).  Then, based on other evidence, at a timely point present the
warrant and get the keys.  They get the decryption from day one, and
a case if suspcions are valid.   If its a false trail, the person
knows he has been investigated.  Otherwise, he would never know.

It is just like getting the keys to one's safe to look at possible
evidence.  The person will be tipped off in that case, too.  Police seem
to manage just fine in those cases.  The only difference is whether we
want an open police or a SECRET police.  I don't think a secret police
is a good idea.  Makes me think of police state.  The Feds can crack
the encryption without keys, IF THEY REALLY WANT TO.  To assume otherwise
is not very sensible.   Not to say it would be cheap or easy, but the
cost and difficulty tends to make fishing expiditions unlikely.  Such
effort would be limited to cases that present a REAL threat, not just
an annoyance.  If they can snoop without leaving the office, (another
thing the Feds want, rather than needing a telco tech's assistance, thus
a court order) they will do extensive fishing, not for criminals but
'troublemakers', like those pressing for Politically Incorrect initiatives
(like legalizing grass, etc).  I would rather make undetected abuse more
difficult than to worry about tipping off the occasional 'crook'.
Besides, police managed just fine before they had access abilities they
have now, and are tryiing to retain and expand on.  Perhaps they need
to get back to old-fashioned logical POLICE WORK, instead of expecting
all evidence of dissent to appear on a silver platter.  The serious
criminals are not going to be using the phone anyway, or will be using
some other sort of code superimposed on the Clinton Cripple.  This could
range from code words, to a digital data stream.

Apparantly you disagree, and think it is OK for the Feds to have easy
and secret access to one's private matters, but I think the citizen
(unless we are now demoted to subjects) has a RIGHT to know he is under
investigation.  Tends to keep the watchdogs honest.  WHO WATCHES THE
WATCHDOGS?  Nobody other then THEMSELVES.  So physical controls are
needed.  REAL ones, not the illusion of controls.

>David
>-- 
>David Sternlight         Great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
>                         our information, errors and omissions excepted.  


-- 
pat@rwing.uucp      [Without prejudice UCC 1-207]     (Pat Myrto) Seattle, WA
         If all else fails, try:       ...!uunet!pilchuck!rwing!pat
WISDOM: "Only two things are infinite; the universe and human stupidity,
         and I am not sure about the former."              - Albert Einstien
