Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!darwin.sura.net!convex!hamrick
From: hamrick@convex.com (Ed Hamrick)
Subject: Which Vendors Export DES Code?
Message-ID: <1993Apr28.195253.9273@convex.com>
Summary: Request information about exported DES software
Sender: usenet@convex.com (news access account)
Nntp-Posting-Host: convex1.convex.com
Organization: CONVEX Computer Corporation, Richardson, Tx., USA
Date: Wed, 28 Apr 1993 19:52:53 GMT
X-Disclaimer: This message was written by a user at CONVEX Computer
              Corp. The opinions expressed are those of the user and
              not necessarily those of CONVEX.
Lines: 39

I've noticed that there is a wide disparity in the way many vendors
treat the exportability of code that use DES.  In the interest of getting
some hard facts, I'd like to solicit some specific information from
people using Unix-based systems outside of the U.S. and Canada.

I realize that this issue is tiresome to most, and that source code is
easily available, most notably from Finland, to fully implement the
various routines that use DES.  Our customers in Finland were also kind
enough to make a Convex-specific version available via anonymous ftp on
nic.funet.fi <smile>.

I'd appreciate it if a few people with Unix-based systems (obtained through
normal channels outside the U.S. and Canada) would check the man pages
on their systems for the availability of the following library routines
that use the DES algorithm:

	crypt(3)
	setkey(3)
	encrypt(3)

	des_crypt(3)
	ecb_crypt(3)
	cbc_crypt(3)
	des_setparity(3)

If you'll mail me this information for whatever machines you have access to,
I'll post a summary.  I'd also appreciate any information about whether the
man page for exports(5) says that the secure option of NFS is available (which
uses DES for authentication).

I already have the information for HP and Convex.

(HP in HP-UX 9.0 ships the crypt(3) routine, and allows use of the encrypt(3)
routine for encryption, but not decryption.  Secure NFS is not available,
and des_crypt et. al. are not available.)

Regards,
Ed Hamrick (hamrick@convex.com)
Convex Computer GmbH
