Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: tcorcora@sunlab.cit.cornell.edu (Travis Corcoran)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Organized Lobbying for Cryptography
Date: 29 Apr 1993 15:47:59 -0500
Organization: UTexas Mail-to-News Gateway
Lines: 45
Sender: daemon@cs.utexas.edu
Message-ID: <9304292047.AA23419@vinca.cit.cornell.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: cs.utexas.edu


grady@netcom.com's message of Thu, 29 Apr 1993 19:36:21 GMT

   Sigh.  Many activists use the trick of equivocation to
   mislead the stupid.

You are misusing the word "equivocation".  It means an intentional
ambiguity (w/ implication of nit-picking) used to mislead (ex: I
didn't stab him (I slashed him)).

   You can usually tell this trick in discourse just like
   your English teacher taught you to recognize metaphor,
   the use of 'is'.

   "Abortion is murder."
   "Communism is evil."
   "A vote for Hogworth is a vote for jobs."
   "Cryptography is a weapon."

   Then when you challenge their obviously false comparisions,
   the activist claim "they were just metaphorizing..."

While I agree w/ grady that cryptography is not a weapon, I take issue
w/ his above argument.  "Communism is evil" is not equivilant to
"Communism is Satan" any more than "The sky is blue" is equivilant to
"The sky is an ocean".  In each example, the first is a mere statement
saying that item A has quality X (Communism has the quality of being
evil, the sky has the quality of being blue), while the second states
that item A is equivilant to item B (a true metaphor) : (Communism ==
Satan, Sky == Ocean).  I hardly think that pointing out that an item
has a quality is the same as equating it with another item.  

I don't think that people making statements of the types given as
examples by grady mean to use metaphors, they are pointing out that A
has quality B.  Communism has the quality of evil, etc.  I doubt
anyone confronted on this would backdown even to the point of
admitting the statement as a metaphor, when it was intended as a
statement of fact/opinion.

Conclusion: (1) cryptography isn't a weapon (it doesn't maim,kill,etc. people).
	    (2) grady's rhetoric is incorrect.

---
Travis Corcoran           tcorcora@sunlab.cit.cornell.edu
              Bite the Wax Tadpole!
