Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!ames!kronos.arc.nasa.gov!hanson
From: hanson@kronos.arc.nasa.gov (Robin Hanson)
Subject: Estimating Wiretap Costs/Benefits
Message-ID: <1993Apr29.193345.15855@kronos.arc.nasa.gov>
Sender: usenet@kronos.arc.nasa.gov (Will Edgington, wedgingt@ptolemy.arc.nasa.gov)
Nntp-Posting-Host: jabberwock.arc.nasa.gov
Organization: NASA/ARC Information Sciences Division
Date: Thu, 29 Apr 1993 19:33:45 GMT
Lines: 351

[Last week I posted a previous version of this paper, with the same
title.  If you've saved that, please substitute this much revised
version instead.  Robin Hanson]


                 CAN WIRETAPS REMAIN COST-EFFECTIVE?

                         by Robin Hanson
              hanson@ptolemy.arc.nasa.gov 510-651-7483  
               47164 Male Terrace, Fremont, CA 94539
                    
                       Draft April 29, 1993

  SUMMARY: Compared to an average monthly phone bill of seventy dollars,
  the option to wiretap the average phone line is probably worth less than
  six cents a month to police.  If so, government policies to preserve 
  wiretap abilities in the face of technological change must raise total 
  phone costs by less than one part in a thousand to be cost-effective.
  Why not let the market decide if wiretaps make sense?  

BACKGROUND

Until now, telephones have happened to allow the existence of "wiretaps",
cheap detectors which can pick up conversations on a phone line without the
consent of either party to the conversation.  And in 1968, such wiretaps
became legal in the U.S., if the law enforcement agency had a warrant and
if the phone company was compensated for expenses to assist the tap.  Since
then, law enforcement agencies have come to rely on this capability to aid
in criminal investigations.  

However, as phone companies have switched to digital technologies, wiretaps
have become more difficult.  And powerful new encryption technologies
threaten to make truly private communication possible; a small chip in each
phone could soon make it virtually impossible to overhear a conversation
without a physical microphone at either end.

The U.S. government has begun to actively respond to these threats to
police wiretap abilities.  First, early in 1992, a "FBI Digital Telephone
Bill" was introduced in Congress [1], proposing to require all
communication services to support easy wiretaps, now without compensation
from the police.  Each tapped conversation would have to be followed
smoothly as the parties used call-forwarding or moved around with cellular
phones.  The data for that conversation would have to be separated out from
other conversations, translated to a "form representing the content of the
communication", and sent without detection or degradation to a remote
government monitoring facility, to be received as quickly as the parties to
the conversation hear themselves talk.

Congress, however, has yet to pass this bill.  So on April 16, 1993 the
White House announced actions toward achieve similar ends, actions not
requiring Congress's approval.  They announced that they 1) had developed
and begun manufacturing a special "wiretap" chip to be placed in future
phones, instead of the total privacy chips which have been under private
development, 2) they plan to require this chip in most phones the
government buys, and 3) they will request all manufacturers of encrypted
communications hardware to use this wiretap chip.  

The same day, AT&T announced it would use these chips "in all its secure
telephone products".  The plan seems to be to create a defacto standard for
encryption chips, so that alternatives become prohibitively expensive, and
to intimidate through the threat of further legislation should this
approach fail.

Both the specific chip design and the general algorithm are secret.  Each
chip would be manufactured under strict government supervision, where it
would be given a fixed indentifier and encryption key [2].  Periodically
during each conversation, the chip would broadcast its identifier and other
info in a special "law enforcement block" (providing the equivalent of both
caller and callee ID).  Law enforcement officers with a court order could
then obtain the key corresponding to this indentifier from special
government agencies, and could thereby listen in on any future or
previously recorded conversations on that phone.

To date, most concerns voiced about the wiretap chip have been about its
security.  Encryption algorithms are usually published, to allow the
absence of public demonstrations of how to break the code to testify to the
strength of that code.  And it is not clear what government agency could be
trusted with the keys.  Many suspect the government will not limit its
access in the way it has claimed; the track records of previous
administrations [3], and of foreign governments [4], do not inspire
confidence on this point.

This paper, however, will neglect these concerns, and ask instead whether
this new wiretap chip, and other policies to preserve phone wiretaps, are
cost-effective tools for police investigation.  That is, which is a cheaper
way for society to investigate crime: force phone communications to support
wiretaps, or give police agencies more money to investigate crimes as they
see fit?  Or to put it another way, would police agencies still be willing
to pay for each wiretap, if each wiretapping agency were charged its share
of the full cost, to phone users, of forcing phones to support wiretaps?

To start to answer this question, we might compare the current benefits
wiretaps provide to law enforcement agencies with projected costs of
implementing the new wiretap chip and other wiretap policies.  And since
current benefits are easier to estimate, let us begin there.

WIRETAP BENEFITS

1990 is the latest year for which wiretap statistics are widely available
[5].  In that year, 872 wiretap installations were requested, and no
requests were denied.  2057 arrests resulted from wiretaps started the same
year, 1486 arrests came from wiretaps in the previous ten years, and 55% of
arrests led to convictions.  76% of the wiretaps were for phone lines (vs
pagers, email, etc.), 60% were regarding drug offenses, and 14% for
gambling offenses.  40% of wiretaps were requested by federal authorities,
while several states, including California and Illinois, still do not allow
wiretaps.

Each wiretap installation heard an average of 1487 calls, 22% of them
incriminating, among 131 people, and cost an average of $45,125, mostly for
labor (extrapolating from the 91% of installations reporting costs).  $1.6
Million was also spend following up on wiretaps from previous years.  Thus
a total of about $41 Million was spent on wiretaps, to obtain about 4000
arrests, at about $10,000 per arrest, or four times as much as the $2500
per arrest figure one gets by dividing the $28 Billion spent by all police
nationally by the total 11 Million non-traffic arrests [6].  

The $31 Million per year spent on phone taps represents only one thousandth
of the total police expenditures, and if we divide this by the 138 Million
phone "access" lines in the country [6], we get about 23 cents spent per
year per phone line, or about two cents a month.

Of course the amount police spend on wiretaps is not the same as the
benefits of wiretaps.  How can we estimate benefits?  Dorothy Denning, an
apologist for both the FBI bill and the wiretap chip, claims that "the
economic benefits [of wiretaps] alone are estimated to be billions of
dollars per year" [7], and then refers to amounts fined, recovered, and "$2
billion in prevented potential economic loss" by the FBI from 1985 to 1991.

Unfortunately Ms. Denning offers no supporting arguments or citations for
these claims.  She further relays FBI claims that through wiretaps "the
hierarchy of organized crime has been neutralized or destabilized", and
that "the war on drugs ... would be substantially ... lost" without them.

Estimating the benefits of police investigations is not a simple as it
might seem, however, and certainly requires more than adding up amounts
fined or recovered.  Well-established results in the economics of law
enforcement [8] tell us to reject the notion that we should be willing to
spend up to one dollar on police, in order to collect another dollar in
fines or to prevent another dollar of theft.  So, for example, we rightly
reject IRS pleas for increased budget based solely on estimates of how many
more dollars can be collected in taxes for each dollar spent by the IRS.

Rather, we in general deter a given class of criminals through a
combination of some perceived probability of being caught and convicted,
and some expected punishment level if convicted.  The optimum police budget
is a complex tradeoff between social costs due to the crimes themselves,
the punishment exacted, and police expenditures.

How then can we estimate wiretap benefits?  If we assume that about the
right total amount is being spent on police, and if we assume that police
have incentives to spend their budget to get as many as possible of the
right kinds of convictions, then the social benefit of having wiretaps is
no more than the additional amount police would be willing to pay, beyond
what they now pay, to undertake the same wiretaps.  The benefit of wiretaps
is actually less than this, because were wiretaps to become more expensive,
we might prefer to get the same criminal deterrence by instead raising
punishment and lowering the probability of conviction, or perhaps we might
accept a lower deterrence level.

How much police would be willing to pay for each wiretap depends of course
on how what alternatives are available.  Claims that wiretaps are only used
when no alternatives exist [7] do no seem credible when compared with
practice, or with expert deliberations on whether to tap or not [9].  If
unable to wiretap a particular suspect's phone line, police might instead
use hidden microphones, informants, grant immunity to related suspects, or
investigate a suspect in other ways.  Or police might focus on similar
suspects who are more easily investigated without wiretaps.

No doubt a few wiretaps have been so valuable that it would have cost ten
times as much to obtain similar results through other means.  But a great
many wiretaps, perhaps the majority, are probably only slightly more
effective, on average, than the same resources spent other ways.  After
all, police presumably use wiretaps whenever they estimate that wiretaps
will cost them less than alternative approaches, even if only marginally
less.

If we assume that substitutes for wiretaps are on average twice as
expensive as wiretaps, so that the police would still request most wiretaps
even if they had to pay twice as much, then the social benefit of phone
wiretaps is about equal to the current spending level of two cents a month
per phone line.  If we assume that alternatives would be on average four
times as expensive, the option to wiretap the average phone would be worth
six cents a month.  

A better estimate might be had by randomly asking recent wiretap requestors
whether they would have still requested that wiretap had they expected it
to take twice as much labor to get the results they had expected, or three
times as much, etc.  But until such research is done, the six cent figure
seems a reasonable conservative estimate, and the two cent figure may be
closer to reality,

Of course the value of the option to tap any particular phone line
presumably varies a great deal from the average value.  But unless the
police can somehow pay only for the option to wiretap particular phone
lines of its choosing, it is the average value that matters for a
cost/benefit analysis.

WIRETAP COSTS

Let us for the moment optimistically assume that the U.S. government
encryption scheme used in the wiretap chip is as secure as whatever private
enterprise would have offered instead, protecting our conversations from
the spying ears of neighbors, corporations, and governments, both foreign
and domestic.  Even so, the use of this chip, and of other policies to
support wiretaps, would create many additional costs to build and maintain
our communication system.

Phone companies must have perceived a non-trivial cost in continuing to
support wiretaps while moving to digital phone transmissions, even when
compared to the widely recognized value of staying on the good side of the
police.  Otherwise the police would not have complained of "instances in
which court orders authorizing the interception of communications have not
been fulfilled because of technical limitations within particular
telecommunications networks" [1] and supported the FBI Digital Telephone
Bill.

The wiretap chip requires extra law enforcement blocks to be added to phone
transmissions, increasing traffic by some unknown percentage.  A special
secure process must be used to add encryption keys to chips, while securely
distributing these keys to special agencies, which must be funded and
monitored.  The chips themselves are manufactured through a special process
so that the chip becomes nearly impossible to take apart, and the pool of
those who can compete to design better implementations is severely limited.
Private encryption systems not supporting wiretaps would require none of
these extra costs.

Perhaps most important, government decree would at least partially
replace private marketplace evolution of standards for how voice is to
be represented, encrypted, and exchanged in our future phones.  It is
widely believed that governments are less efficient than private
enterprise in procuring products and standards, though they may perhaps
perform a useful brokering role when we choose between competing private
standards.  How much less efficient is a matter of debate, some say
they pay twice as much, while others might say they pay only 10% more.   

This type of wiretap support also raises costs by preventing full use of a
global market for telephone systems.  It pushes certain domestic phone
standards, which foreign countries may not adopt, and requires the use of
encryption methods known only to our government, which foreign countries
are quite unlikely to adopt.

In 1990, 53 U.S. phone companies had total revenues of $117.7 Billion for
domestic calls, $4.4 Billion for overseas calls, and $4.5 Billion for
cellular calls [6], for a total cost of $126.6 Billion dollars to run the
phone system, and an average monthly phone bill of $76.45 per line.  If we
conservatively assume alternatives to wiretaps would cost four times as
much as the $31 Million now spent on wiretaps annually, we find that if we
must raise phone costs by as much as one part in 1350 to preserve wiretap
abilities in the face of technological change, then wiretaps are not cost
effective!  The six cents per line wiretap option value must be compared
with an average seventy dollar monthly phone bill.  (If we assume that
wiretap alternatives are on average only twice as expensive as wiretaps,
then this limit falls to one part in 4000!)

The current government contractor claims it will offer the wiretap chips
for about $30 each in lots of 10,000 [2], three times the $10 each a
competing private developer claims it would charge [10] for a chip with
comparable functionality, minus wiretap support.  And the wiretap chip
price probably doesn't reflect the full cost of government funded research
to develop it.  If only one phone (or answering machine) is replaced per
phone line every five years, the extra cost for these chips alone comes out
to over 33 cents extra a month per line, or more than five times the six
cent estimated wiretap option value.  Of course most phones wouldn't have
encryption chips for a while, but the wiretap benefit is per phone, so this
argument still applies.

COMPARING BENEFITS AND COSTS

Given the dramatic difference between the total cost of running the phone
system and an estimated social value of wiretaps, we can justify only the
slightest modification of the phone system to accommodate wiretaps.  When
the only modification required was to allow investigators in to attach
clips to phone wires, wiretap support may have been reasonable.  But when
considering more substantial modification, the burden of proof is clearly
on those proposing such modification to show how the costs would really be
less than the benefits.  This is especially true if we consider the costs
neglected above, of invasions of the privacy of innocents, and the risk
that future administrations will not act in good faith [3].

If consensus cannot be obtained on the relative costs and benefits of
wiretaps, we might do better to focus on structuring incentives so that
people will want to make the right choices, whatever those might be.
Regarding phone company support for wiretaps, it seems clear that if
wiretaps are in fact cost-effective, there must be some price per wiretap
so that police would be willing to pay for wiretaps, and phone companies
would be willing to support them.  As long as the current law requiring
police to pay phone company "expenses" is interpreted liberally enough, the
market should provide wiretaps, if they are valuable.

Monopoly power of phone companies, or of police, might be an issue, but if
we must legislate to deal with monopoly here, why not do so the same way we
deal with monopoly elsewhere, such as through price regulation?
Legislating the price to be zero, however, as the FBI bill proposes, seems
hard to justify.

Regarding encryption chips, a similar solution is available if phone
companies are free to offer discounts to their customers who buy phones
supporting wiretaps.  The option to sell a wiretap to the police at some
future date compensates the phone company for this discount.  Each phone
user would then decide if this discount was worth buying a more expensive
phone with a wiretap chip, and suffering the risk of possible unlawful
invasions of their privacy.  Explicit consent to wiretaps, under whatever
conditions customers want to impose, would go a long way toward eliminating
wiretaps as a civil rights or constitutional issue.

Adverse selection might mean that those more likely to commit crimes would
decline the wiretap discount more, and thereby raise the price others must
pay for not being wiretaped.  But those who honestly value their privacy
more than most would still be happier to decline an inflated wiretap
discount of thirty cents a month, than to be required by law to support
wiretaps.  And speculative markets in wiretap options or mechanisms to
allow long-term commitments to one's wiretap status could reduce this
adverse selection problem, perhaps dramatically.

If, as seems quite possible, the stringent cost requirements described here
for preserving wiretap abilities cannot be met, then we should accept that
history has passed the economical wiretap by.  Police functioned before
1968, and would function again after wiretaps.

[1] ftp: ftp.eff.org  /pub/EFF/legislation/new-fbi-wiretap-bill

[2] Dorothy Denning, "The Clipper Chip: A Technical Summary",
    distributed to sci.crypt newsgroup April 21, 1993. 

[3] Alexander Charns, Cloak and Gavel, FBI Wiretaps, Bugs, Informers, and
    the Supreme Court, Univ. Ill. Press, 1992.

[4] The Invisible Weapon, Oxford Press, ISBN 0-19-506273-6

[5] Report on Applications for Orders Authorizing or Approving the
    Interception of Wire, Oral, or Electronic Communications, 1990,
    Administrative Office of U.S. Courts, Washington, DC 20544.

[6] Statistical Abstract of the United States, 1992.

[7] Dorothy Denning, "To Tap Or Not To Tap", Comm. of the ACM, March 1993.

[8] Richard Posner, Economic Analysis of Law, 4th Ed., 1992

[9] Report of the National Commision for the Review of Federal and State
    Laws Relating to Wiretapping and Electronic Surveillance, Washington, 
    1976.

[10] conversation with Steven Bryen, representative of Secure Communications
    Technology, 301-588-2200, April 25, 1993.  

-- 
Robin Hanson  hanson@ptolemy.arc.nasa.gov 
415-604-3361  MS-269-2, NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, CA 94035
510-651-7483  47164 Male Terrace, Fremont, CA  94539-7921 
