Path: msuinfo!caen!spool.mu.edu!yale.edu!cmcl2!adm!smoke!gwyn
From: gwyn@smoke.brl.mil (Doug Gwyn)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Frequency of Letters
Message-ID: <18240@smoke.brl.mil>
Date: 1 Mar 92 00:48:23 GMT
Article-I.D.: smoke.18240
References: <thhhv3hwayne@netcom.com> <897@transfer.stratus.com>
Organization: U.S. Army Ballistic Research Laboratory, APG, MD.
Lines: 52

In article <897@transfer.stratus.com> cme@ellisun.sw.stratus.com (Carl Ellison) writes:
>In article <thhhv3hwayne@netcom.com> wayne@netcom.com (wayne t. watson) writes:
>>What is the correct or standard reference for the frequency of letters
>>in the English language?
>There is no single correct frequency of letters in English.  The counts
>vary depending on type of text -- even on author -- and a single author's
>counts will probably vary with time and subject matter.
>What you need to do is grab text of the kind you're interested in and
>count characters, digraphs, trigraphs, etc., yourself.

Hi.  I don't normally read this news group these days, but I thought
I'd take a peek tonight to see if it has gotten any more informative..

While Carl is right, I think this issue deserves some elaboration.
The frequency tallies for a given sample of text (a particular message)
are exact, but when you talk about "frequencies for the English language"
you're not talking about the same kind of thing.  "The English language"
is not a fixed, finite, closed object that can be exactly characterized,
unlike a particular message text.  Rather, you're asking for STATISTICAL
information about the ensemble of possible messages (in that language),
specifically the expected relative frequency of occurrence of the
individual letters of the alphabet, in the limit of an arbitrarily large
amount of text distributed with some presumed "typical" usage pattern.
Note that there are several problems with such a request, particularly:
there is not an arbitrarily large amount of English available for
tallying; and the assumed usage pattern is not obvious.  Carl indicated
several aspects of this situation.  Perhaps more importantly, however,
is the observation that the statistics is not the reality.  No single
sample message is likely to exactly match the overall language
statistics, or even come particularly close to a match.  Therefore for
practical cryptanalytic purposes, the kind of question you want to be
able to answer about a given message is:  How likely is it that I would
see THIS particular message rather than some OTHER possible message, on
the assumption that it is a sample from the space of messages whose
statistics are those that I have on hand for English-language messages?
This nice thing about such questions is that in practice the answers are
relatively robust in the face of uncertainties in the population
statistics.  Therefore, the bottom line is that if you're applying the
"English language frequency" statistics intelligently, the vagaries
caused by factors such as Carl mentioned don't usually harm the analysis.
Generally you'd still make the same choices at branch points within the
analysis, no matter whose reasonable estimate of English-language letter
frequencies you use.  On the other hand, if you blindly apply the
statistical data to the specific message example, for instance in the
case of a simple substitution by relacing the most common ciphertext
letter by "E", the next most common by "T", etc., you have very little
chance of correctly reconstructing the plaintext.  If you have a VERY
long message, have good statistics that accurately represent the class of
messages of which the one in question is an example, and apply not only
uniliteral but also digraph and trigraph frequencies, then you may have
some success in reconstructing the plaintext.  However, better results
are obtained by more clever analysis than use of raw statistics.
