Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!jvnc.net!darwin.sura.net!wupost!uwm.edu!linac!mp.cs.niu.edu!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!phil
From: phil@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: RSA Laboratories announces RSAREF free cryptographic toolkit
Message-ID: <1992Mar4.191034.6062@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu>
Date: 4 Mar 92 19:10:34 GMT
References: <BURT.92Mar3135530@chirality.rsa.com> <BKKF6r.ro@world.std.com> <JIS.92Mar3233627@big-screw.MIT.EDU>
Organization: University of Illinois at Urbana
Lines: 45

jis@MIT.EDU (Jeffrey I. Schiller) writes:

>However RSAREF represents an attempt by RSA Data Security to make
>"genuinely ... real live privacy" available to the network community
>free of charge and with minimal hassle. I think they should be
>applauded rather than flamed at!
>
>			-Jeff

Maybe.  I note there are a lot of restrictions in the licensing agreement
with regard to things like programming languages and calling interface.

Also the restriction on ONE backup copy does not take into consideration
the realities of a computing environment.  I hope this is just an oversight
caused by a lawyer type who knows nothing about computers being the author
of the licensing terms and that these things get corrected.

I've not seen the documents describing this (and I doubt very many people
outside of rsa.com yet have) so I cannot say if the interface is a good one
or a bad one.  There are a lot of BAD ones in this industry.  One of the
great flexibilities of independent programmers is to improve on things
other people have done already (you can't expect those who do the very
first implementation to get it all right).  These restrictions by RSA
could put a serious damper on things.

In some cases they do mention getting "prior written consent".  I wonder
if this is readily available just for asking and giving them a description
of what you plan to do.  In other cases (such as the restriction on not
translating it to another language) this is not even mentioned.  Maybe it
is an oversight, or maybe that fully intended not to allow it for anyone.
We'll see.

If they really just wanted to allow a balance between innovative development
and retaining commercial control, surely they could have allowed things like
designing new interfaces to the algorithm, and translation to other languages,
under terms of no distribution except through RSA itself, which would get a
copy of all work done.  Maybe they will reevaluate and see the light.

I sent them a description of something I want to do that does require
translating it to another language.  We'll see if this is a genuine
move to make non-commercial availability of RSA real, or if it is a
"carrot on a stick" to try to hush some of the uproar often heard on
sci.crypt and other mediums regarding the stuffy patent issues.

I have to play the hand to see if the other guy is bluffing.
