Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!sdd.hp.com!cs.utexas.edu!convex!seas.smu.edu!utacfd.uta.edu!trsvax!rwsys!sneaky!gordon
From: gordon@sneaky.lonestar.org (Gordon Burditt)
Subject: Re: RSA Laboratories announces RSAREF free cryptographic toolkit
Message-ID: <1992Mar7.062814.840@sneaky.lonestar.org>
Organization: Gordon Burditt
References: <BKKF6r.ro@world.std.com> <JIS.92Mar3233627@big-screw.MIT.EDU> <1992Mar4.191034.6062@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu>
Distribution: na
Date: Sat, 7 Mar 1992 06:28:14 GMT

>>However RSAREF represents an attempt by RSA Data Security to make
>>"genuinely ... real live privacy" available to the network community
>>free of charge and with minimal hassle. I think they should be
>>applauded rather than flamed at!
>>			-Jeff
>Maybe.  I note there are a lot of restrictions in the licensing agreement
>with regard to things like programming languages and calling interface.

I wonder if this is an attempt to build a market for their key registry
services.  I haven't seen the software yet.  But it could be used for
this purpose.  Here's what I expect to find (remember, this is just
speculation):

The interface, as written, takes a certificate (or list of certificates) for 
someone's public key as an argument.  In order to be usable, a certificate 
must be $igned by either (1) RSADSI's key registry, or (2) some other key 
registry, for which you have a public-key certificate $igned by RSADSI's key 
registry and indicating authority to be a sub-registry.  The way to get (1) 
is to pay RSADSI some money, and the way for a key registry to get (2) is
to enter into a contract with RSADSI to pay money for keys it registers,
and it will probably want money from you (or your corporate department)
to register a key.  RSADSI's key registry public key will be hard-coded
in the software, or it will be extremely inconvenient to use more
than one high-level key registry.

The package will include several demo keys, some public/private pairs, some
public only, $igned for use.  (Of course, these keys are pretty useless for
real privacy if you don't know the private key or most everyone knows it.)
There will be some test messages to test interoperability between various
machine types (byte order, int sizes, buggy compilers, etc.).  If 
sub-key-registries are actually a concern of the software, certificates
for a demo sub-key-registry and a couple of keys issued by it will be 
included, so you can test out and debug certificate management routines.

The low-level RSA encryption routines will be static (as in C language
"static") and not part of the interface.  (This might explain the "no 
other languages" restriction:  BASIC and FORTRAN, among others, don't 
have such things in the language).

You will be able to generate your own keys, in the form of un$igned 
certificates.  You won't be able to use them until you get a $igned 
certificate.  You will, however, if RSADSI isn't trying to be nasty, 
be able get a public key registered without revealing the private key to 
anyone.  

Software to generate $igned public key certificates will not be present.

For the conspiracy theorists, RSA will turn over the list of electronic
mail addresses (and names and p-addresses and phone numbers for the
user's group) to the evil government, which will assume that anyone
interested in privacy or civil rights is a Drug Dealer(TM).  Of course,
the government already does that to sci.crypt posters anyway.

I'm not trying to paint an "evil corporation puts stranglehold on privacy
technology" or "evil government pressures corporation to put stranglehold on
privacy technology" picture here.  Given that they have a right to profit from
the invention (a topic which will be hotly disputed here, and this is not
an expression of my opinion on the subject), if the fees for registered keys 
are reasonable for individuals to use, they may not be putting a 
stranglehold on the technology.

					Gordon L. Burditt
					sneaky.lonestar.org!gordon
