Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!widener!ukma!wupost!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!mcsun!sun4nl!alchemy!nevries
From: nevries@cs.ruu.nl (Nico de Vries)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: House locks are NOT software locks (Re: ZIP password ...)
Message-ID: <1992Mar09.091133.11209@cs.ruu.nl>
Date: 9 Mar 92 09:11:33 GMT
Organization: Utrecht University, Dept. of Computer Science
Lines: 33

I read multiple times of people comparing house locks with software
locks. The claim goes like 'would you give an universal house lock
cracker to anyone ?'. This comparision is WRONG. If SOME house lock
can be opened in a few seconds the house owner needs to know this too.
Furthermore replacing a software lock is much easier than replacing
a group of house locks.
The widely used placebo security in PKZIP is a real problem. There
are much better programs for security (like PGP) but PKZIP is the
most widely used one. The new PKZIP 2.0 will have the same fake
security as the previous one (according to a PKWARE spokesman on
comp.compression). This is a REAL PROBLEM. Many people are relying
on this product for safe storage. 
Please, please make the password cracking software as public as
possible. It IS possible to replace the PKZIP 'lock' with a good
one and only ignorance of PKWARE does prevent it. If a wide public
knows about its weaknesses the users can do something about it by
demading PKWARE to replace its fake security. 
Please author of the password cracking sotware also make a version
for PKZIP 2.0 so everyone will not think it is a PKZIP 1.1 only 
problem.
Users have the right to know about the quality of their security
If it is fake they should know it. Unlike house locks, software
locks CAN be replaced widely and easy!

What do you think?

Nico de Vries  MAIL: nevries@praxis.cs.ruu.nl
---
#include <dislaimer&MY opinion.h++>
"I know my English spelling is bad, but if I used my    "   - O      
"own language you probably couldn't read it at all.     "    |        
"(And above that I am a bad typist too!)"                   \_/    
[signature virus removed by SigVirKiller(tm) 2.13 Pat Pend]   
