Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:7737 sci.engr:2852
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,sci.engr
Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!mips!mips!munnari.oz.au!metro!cayley
From: cayley@maths.su.oz.au (Cayley source owner)
Subject: Announcement of Cayley V3.8
Message-ID: <cayley.701073064@galois>
Summary: Cayley V3.8 is now available, with many new features
Keywords: Cayley, Computational algebra
Sender: cayley@maths.su.oz.au
Nntp-Posting-Host: galois.maths.su.oz.au
Organization: Sydney University Computing Service, Sydney, NSW, Australia
Date: Fri, 20 Mar 1992 06:31:04 GMT
Lines: 102


                    ANNOUNCEMENT OF CAYLEY V3.8


   Distribution of Cayley V3.8 commenced in the fourth quarter of 1991.


Introduction
------------

   The Cayley system for discrete algebra and combinatorial theory is designed
to solve hard problems in related areas of algebra, number theory and finite 
geometry. Cayley enables users to define and to compute in structures such as 
finite and infinite groups, rings, fields and modules. Rather than simply being
an alternative to other Computer Algebra systems, Cayley supports computation 
in important new areas of algebra (eg group theory, modules). Its unique design
philosopy is based on a computational model arising from the structural 
principles of modern abstract algebra.

   Cayley V3.8 contains many new facilities. Further, many of the existing 
program modules have been extensively overhauled. Much of this work is in 
preparation for Cayley V4, a much more general algebra system that comes with 
a completely new user language.

Summary of New Features
-----------------------

The major changes that appear in V3.8 may be briefly summarised as follows:

   (*) FIELDS: The rational field Q, quadratic extensions of Q, and cyclotomic 
number fields Qm have been implemented. The finite field machinery has been 
rebuilt and it now handles field extensions and embeddings of subfields. A 
fast package for computing with arbitrary precision real and complex numbers, 
based on Brent's highly-regarded MP package, has been installed.

   (*) RINGS: The integer package has been substantially revised to provide 
faster execution. In particular, the basic arithmetic module has been optimized 
and a new version of Arjen Lenstra's elliptic curve factorization method has 
been installed. Arithmetic for the rings Z/mZ has been implemented. Matrix rings
may now be defined over any ring definable in Cayley (including matrix rings). 
In particular, matrix rings may be defined over Fq, Q, Qm, Z/mZ, R and C.

   (*) MODULES: The first part of a planned facility for R-modules has been 
installed. In V3.8, users may work with modules over fields and Euclidean 
Domains. The machinery for computing with KG-modules (K a finite field, G a 
finite group) now includes Gerhard Schneider's powerful endomorphism ring 
programs. In particular, this allows the construction Hom(U, V), where U and V 
are KG-modules and also provides a test for modules being indecomposable.

   (*) GROUPS: Certain critical algorithms in the permutation group module have 
been replaced by faster versions (testing for alternating or symmetric, 
verifying strong generation, identifying composition factors). In the area of 
finitely presented groups, a new algorithm for computing subgroups of low 
index, developed recently by Charlie Sims, has been installed. The original 
Todd-Coxeter procedure has been replaced by a significantly improved version 
developed by George Havas. A facility has been developed by Wieb Bosma for 
computing with class functions and ordinary characters of a finite group (with 
values in a cyclotomic number field Qm). 

   (*) GRAPHS: A substantial module for computing with graphs and digraphs has 
been installed. The most important facility is provided by Brendan Mckay's 
graph automorphism program nauty. The user may construct the automorphism group
of a combinatorial structure and then analyze the structure of the group using 
Cayley's extensive permutation group facilities.

Documentation
-------------

   Documentation has been greatly improved through the release of a 250 page 
Handbook which contains a complete and up-to-date description of all functions 
and operators. This manual, which contains an extensive index, is available 
in the form of a .dvi file and so can be used as the basis of a simple on-line 
help facility.

Implementations
---------------

   Cayley has recently been installed on the Macintosh running A/UX, the 
IBM RS/6000 series workstations and the Convex for the first time. As of 
January 1992, versions of Cayley are available for the following processors:

     SUN 3, SUN 4
     Apollo M680x0 based models, DN10000                
     DECstation
     VAX/VMS                    
     Macintosh running A/UX 2.01 or higher
     IBM RS 6000 series
     IBM PS/2 Models running AIX
     IBM 30xx, 43xx under VM/CMS
     Convex 

Further Information
-------------------

For more information contact:

   The Secretary, Computational Algebra Group, 
   University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia

Email: cayley@maths.su.oz.au Telephone: +61 2 692 3338 Fax: +61 2 692 4534


