Path: msuinfo!caen!spool.mu.edu!mips!pacbell.com!network.ucsd.edu!sdcc12!sdcc15!ee52fdc
From: ee52fdc@sdcc15.ucsd.edu (sean maschue)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: STU-3 Secure Telephones?
Keywords: Phone, encryption, STU
Message-ID: <30835@sdcc12.ucsd.edu>
Date: 21 Mar 92 14:17:40 GMT
Article-I.D.: sdcc12.30835
Sender: news@sdcc12.ucsd.edu
Lines: 51
Nntp-Posting-Host: sdcc15.ucsd.edu


Can sci.crypt tell me about AT&T's STU Phones.


Do you know the equipment I am asking about?  They are very heavy
and seem very cryptic.

What is the general
strategy behind their operation?  I assume they work on some kind of 
Digital standard encryption.  What algorithm is involved?  

Is this similar in anyway to the <crypt> program's operation?

Do such phones meet the National Data Encyption Standard?  What
does this mean, then?

What exactly is the "Key" that such phone users carry around their
necks?  Is this a PAL or a PLA?  Or is this an Eprom of some sorts?
I suppose an EPROM make more sense.

Does anyone know more about the data transfer/resolution of these
phones?  Who uses them?  Are there any good sources of information
on this technology publicly available?  

About access to this technology...  Is this technology restricted in
any sense?  How dose these telephone/data encryptor's security
compare to other, lower technology and lighter commercially
available products?  Is there anything better?

Can we assume that such telephones are very secure, i suppose,
assuming that the keys are properly maintained and that the whole
system is managed properly?


ONE LAST QUESTION, Is there such a thing as Analog encryption?
Would this be SCRAMBLING?  How do these technologies compare?  It
seems like there is great potential for secure communications
channels using traditional analog electronics andanalog computers,
or even things like matched crystal sets?

Thanks in Advance...

I know the thingsthat I wonder about sometimes are pretty screwy
sounding, here...so if you could just reccomend a good source of
such information.  My time spent at the Science and Egineering
Library were pretty unproductive in the Cryptograpy departments...


-- 
sean maschue <smaschue@ucsd.edu>
university of california at san diego
