Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!think.com!mintaka.lcs.mit.edu!bloom-picayune.mit.edu!news.mit.edu!jis
From: jis@MIT.EDU (Jeffrey I. Schiller)
Subject: Re: RSAREF and PEM
In-Reply-To: mark@windsor.a92104.sai.com's message of 24 Mar 92 14:10:00 GMT
Message-ID: <JIS.92Mar24235028@big-screw.MIT.EDU>
Sender: news@athena.mit.edu (News system)
Nntp-Posting-Host: big-screw.mit.edu
Organization: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
References: <29cf3551@windsor.a92104.sai.com>
Date: Wed, 25 Mar 1992 04:50:28 GMT
Lines: 85

In article <29cf3551@windsor.a92104.sai.com> mark@windsor.a92104.sai.com (Mark Windsor) writes:

   Path: bloom-picayune.mit.edu!mintaka.lcs.mit.edu!olivea!spool.mu.edu!agate!ucbvax!windsor.a92104.sai.com!mark
   From: mark@windsor.a92104.sai.com (Mark Windsor)
   Newsgroups: sci.crypt
   Date: 24 Mar 92 14:10:00 GMT
   Sender: daemon@ucbvax.BERKELEY.EDU
   Lines: 27

   Thanks to Jeff Schiller for responding to my message on RSAREF and PEM.

Your welcome :-).

   You'd have to work out the details of the certification process.  PEM has
   a very complex and detailed key certification system in which you either
   buy (lease?) some kind of self-contained, tamper-resistant, cryptographic
   signing box (which records information for RSADSI on how many keys have
   been signed by it, so you can be billed), or else you basically get RSADSI
   (or someone they designate) to sign keys for you.  (Here I am speaking of
   "you" as an organization which wants to certify keys.)

Actually the latest PEM documents no longer require self-contained,
tamper-resistant hardware. The old documents articulated an
architecture that contained but one certificate hierarchy that required
CAs (Certification Authorities) to use special hardware as a means of
enforcing uniform quality of certification.

The most recent documents provide for several Policy Certification
Authorities (PCAs) that can co-exist. Each PCA can have its own rules
regarding the level of effort required to secure the certificate signing
process. The PCAs will be certified by the Internet Certification
Authority (the ICA) which will be the ultimate "root" of the certificate
tree. Already, four different PCAs have been proposed. They are:

A) A high-trust PCA. This PCA will work pretty much the way the original
documents were written. CAs will need to use special purpose hardware to
ensure that the certificate issuing process is highly secure. Certificates
under this hierarchy may well wind up being used for commercial communications
(like Purchase Orders etc.) where a high degree of trust is required in
the PEM software and infrastructure.

B) A "mid-range" PCA. This PCA will not require that CAs under it use
special purpose hardware. Nor will it require that organizations go to
extreme lengths to verify the identity of individuals requesting certification.
The idea here is that certificates under this PCA will be used to
provide email authentication abilities greater then those present today
(basically none!). Some organizations may wish to require correspondents
to use CAs under the high-trust PCA, depending on business requirements.

C) The "PERSONA" PCA. CAs under this PCA will make no attempt to
identify individuals who wish to have certificates issued under this
part of the certificate hierarchy. The idea here is so that individuals
can have email "personas" that can securely communicate (i.e. exchange
confidential messages) without disclosing their real names.

Btw. RSADSI has volunteered to establish a PERSONA PCA that will issue
certificates for no charge!

D) The "Residential" PCA. This PCA will be used to issue certificates
to individuals who do not want certificates that affiliate them with
particular organizations.

Each PCA will file a copy of its "policy for certification" with the ICA.
The ICA will make this information publicly available. PEM implementations
will notify recipients of messages when they receive a message that was
certified under a PCA different from their own. In this fashion a recipient
whose own certificate is issued under a high-trust PCA will be notified when
his/her PEM system receives a message that was signed by a certificate that
was issued under say the "mid-range" PCA.

I obviously cannot give the whole story here about how all of PEM
works and fits together. If you want more information, hang on, the
new documents should be published as Internet Drafts shortly.

   I think some people would be interested in a less, shall we say, centralized
   approach to key certification.  It would be interesting to see whether an
   acceptable key certification system could be set up without the fatherly hand
   of RSADSI supervising key signing.

And the Internet Standards community, through the IETF, understands this.
The mechanisms I briefly touched on above attempt to provide this less
centralized approach without loosing the benefits of the high-trust
certification model.

			-Jeff
