Xref: msuinfo comp.research.japan:383 sci.crypt:7788
Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!mips!swrinde!gatech!news.ans.net!cmcl2!arizona!rick
From: rick@cs.arizona.edu (Rick Schlichting)
Newsgroups: comp.research.japan,sci.crypt
Subject: Kahaner Report: Asiacrypt'91 description
Message-ID: <14441@optima.cs.arizona.edu>
Date: 26 Mar 92 14:55:05 GMT
Sender: rick@cs.arizona.edu
Followup-To: comp.research.japan
Lines: 238
Approved: rick@cs.arizona.edu


  [Dr. David Kahaner is a numerical analyst on sabbatical to the 
   Office of Naval Research-Asia (ONR Asia) in Tokyo from NIST.  The 
   following is the professional opinion of David Kahaner and in no 
   way has the blessing of the US Government or any agency of it.  All 
   information is dated and of limited life time.  This disclaimer should 
   be noted on ANY attribution.]

  [Copies of previous reports written by Kahaner can be obtained using
   anonymous FTP from host cs.arizona.edu, directory japan/kahaner.reports.]

To: Distribution
From: David K. Kahaner
Re: Asiacrypt'91 description
22 March 1992
This file is named "asiacryp.upd"

ABSTRACT. A description of the meeting AsiaCrypt '91, Nov 11-22 1991, Japan
is given. (Odlyzko).

INTRODUCTION.
In an earlier report (asiacryp.91, 27 Feb 1992), I circulated the titles
of papers presented at this conference. One of the participants,
	Dr. Andrew Odlyzko
	Room 2C-355
	AT&T Bell Laboratories
	600 Mountain Ave.
	Murray Hill, NJ 07974
	 Email: AMO@RESEARCH.ATT.COM
sent the attached description of the meeting, which I am distributing
with his permission and my thanks.


ASIACRYPT '91

INTRODUCTION

The Asiacrypt '91 conference was held in Fujiyoshida, Japan, at the foot
of Mr. Fuji, during November 11-14, 1991.  It was cosponsored by the
International Association for Cryptologic Research (IACR) and the
Institute of Electronics, Information, and Communication Engineers
(IEICE, a Japanese engineering society similar to the IEEE) and was
devoted to presentation of latest research results in cryptology.  It
attracted about 190 participants, roughly 120 from Japan and the others
from over a dozen countries.

TECHNICAL PROGRAM

The technical program consisted of 4 invited lectures and 39 contributed
ones.  The titles and authors were listed in the report "asiacryp.91",
sent out on Feb. 27, '92.  The proceedings will be published in 1992 by
Springer in their Lecture Notes in Computer Science series under the
title ``Advances in Cryptology - ASIACRYPT '91.'' The editors will be
the two program co-chairmen, H. Imai of Yokohama National University
(imai@imailab.dnj.ynu.ac.jp) and R. Rivest of MIT
(rivest@theory.lcs.mit.edu).

All authors had either extended abstracts or complete papers available
before the conference, and these were distributed to the participants.
By now authors should have finished revising their papers for
publication in the proceedings, so anyone interested in obtaining a
particular paper even before the proceedings appear can write to the
author(s).

The lectures covered all aspects of modern cryptology, although there
was heavier representation than at some of other recent meetings on
cryptanalysis and construction of classical private-key cryptosystems.

Asiacrypt '91 was not primarily a conference on Japanese or Asian work
in cryptography, although travel considerations did lead to a
preponderance of both participants and speakers from neighboring
counties.  It was instead a typical international conference.  All the
lectures were in English.  The program committee had two co-chairman,
one Japanese, one American, and of the remaining 12 members, 3 were from
Japan, 3 from the USA, and one each from People's Republic of China,
South Korea, Taiwan, Israel, Sweden, and Switzerland.  Submissions were
reviewed by the committee without knowledge of the authors' identity.
Of the 39 contributed papers that were accepted, 11 were from Japan, 8
from Australia, 7 from the USA, 6.5 from Europe, 6 from Asia excluding
Japan, and 0.5 from Israel. (These are approximate counts, giving
fractional weights to each of multiple authors.) There are differences
in emphasis on different aspects of cryptologic research in different
countries (such as the great interest in conference key systems and
hierarchical signature schemes in Japan) which are not obvious from the
program because of the makeup of the selection committee.

OTHER INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCES ON CRYPTOLOGY

Starting in the early 1980's, IACR has been sponsoring two series of
cryptology conferences.  One consists of the Crypto meetings, held each
August in Santa Barbara, California.  The other is the Eurocrypt series,
which is held in April or May of each year in some European city.
(Eurocrypt '92 will meet in Balatonfured, Hungary, the first time this
conference will be outside Western Europe.) The dates, program committee
chairmen, and general chairmen (who are responsible for local
arrangements, participant registration, and so on,) for the next
meetings in these series are:

Eurocrypt '92:          May 242-28, 1992
Program Chairman:       Rainer A. Rueppel, R^3 Security Engineering, Switzerland
                        rueppel@nimbus.ethz.ch
General Chairman:       Tibor Nemetz, Hungarian Academy of Sciences
                        h1137nem@ella.hu

Crypto '92:             August 16-20, 1992
Program Chairman:       Ernest F. Brickell, Sandia Laboratories, 
                        efbrick@cs.sandia.gov
General Chairman:       Spyros Magliveras, Univ. Nebraska-Lincoln
                        spyros@helios.unl.edu

In addition, in 1990 a biannual series of meetings, called Auscrypt, was
inaugurated, which take place in Australia or its vicinity.  The next
meeting in this series will be held December 14-17, 1992 at Somerset
College in Queensland, Australia. The program chairman is Jennifer
Seberry (Univ. Wollongong), and the general chairman is William Caelli
of Queensland Univ. of Technology, w.caelli@qut.edu.au.

The proceedings of all these meetings are published in the Springer
Lecture Notes in Computer Science series, and the latest volumes to
appear are those with numbers 453, 473, 537, and 547, representing
Auscrypt '90, Eurocrypt '90, Crypto '90, and Eurocrypt '91,
respectively.

There are tentative plans to hold other Asiacrypt meetings, but no
definite decisions have been taken.

JAPANESE AND OTHER ASIAN CRYPTOGRAPHY RESEARCH

Sang-Jae Moon of Kyung Pook National University in Korea presented an
invited lecture at Asiacrypt '91 under the announced title ``Research
activities on cryptology in Korea.''  This lecture turned out to be a
survey of cryptologic activities in South Korea, Taiwan, and to some
extent Japan.  Although some South Korean and Taiwanese cryptologists
have been attending Crypto and Eurocrypt meetings for years, and have
occasionally contributed papers to those conferences, the recent rapid
growth of interest in cryptology in their home countries is not well
known.  Some of the Korean meetings have attracted more than 100
participants, but it appears that these were more instructional meetings
than research conferences.  Participants from Taiwan and South Korea
attributed the considerably greater level of activity in Korea to the
support that country's government has given to cryptology work.

There has been substantial unclassified work on cryptography in the
People's Republic of China in the last ten years.  Many cryptologists
from that country have been attended Western conferences and visited
European and American universities.  Their work was well represented
among the papers accepted for the Asiacrypt '91 program, but
unfortunately because of visa and financial difficulties few of the
authors were able to attend, and most of their lectures were canceled.
There does not seem to be any survey of cryptologic research in the PRC
similar to that of Professor Moon for Korea and Taiwan.

Some of the Japanese work in cryptology is well known in the United
States, since Japanese scientists have frequently attended meetings in
the West, have presented papers, and have published in English-language
journals.  However, the full extent of this work is not appreciated.
Two collections of English translations of Japanese papers in cryptology
are available, published by the IEICE:

A.      Special Issue on Cryptography and 
        Information Security, Trans. IEICE, 
        vol E73, no. 7, July 1990.

B.      Section on cryptography and information 
        security of the Trans. IEICE,
        vol. E74, no. 8, August 1991.

Both issues can be obtained from:

        Maruzen Co. Ltd. 
        Export Department
        P.O. Box 5050
        Tokyo International 100-31
        Japan
        (FAX: +81-3-274-2270)

These issues present a cross section of recent work in Japan.  The '90
issue contains a survey by H. Imai (one of the program co-chairman of
Asiacrypt '91), ``Recent development of cryptology in Japan,'' pp.
1026-1030, from which some of the information below is drawn.  As is
true in the West, Japanese conferences in information theory and
theoretical computer science usually contain lectures or even entire
sessions of talks on cryptography.  In addition, since 1984, regular
specialized conferences have been held.  Currently they consist of the
Symposium on Cryptography and Information Security (SCIS) series and the
Workshop on Cryptography and Information Security (WCIS) series.  One of
each of these is held every year, with SCIS in January or February and
WCIS in July or August. (However, because of the extra effort required
by Asiacrypt '91, WCIS '91 was apparently not held, and SCIS '92 was
postponed until April '92.)

The SCIS meetings usually consist of about 40 papers (selected by a
program committee from submissions), presented over three days, and
attract about 120 attendees.  (By contrast, the international Crypto and
Eurocrypt meetings attract between 200 and 300 participants.)  The WCIS
meetings have a more varied format, but usually many fewer papers
(between 10 and 20) and attract between 80 and 150 participants.
Lectures at both SCIS and WCIS meetings are almost all in Japanese.

Information about the next SCIS meeting:

 SCIS 92 : The Ninth Symposium on Cryptography and Information Security
    Chair: Katsuhiro Nakamura (NEC)
     Date: April 2-4, 1992
 Location: Tateshina Park Hotel +81-266-67-2600
           Chino-City, Nagano-Prefecture  
      Fee: 35,000 yen including lunches, banquet, and accommodations.
Deadlines: Deadline for registration was Feb. 28.
   For further information contact:
   Kazue Tanaka or Hiroshi Miyano
   NEC Corporation
   4-1-1 Miyazaki Miyamae KAWASAKI 216 JAPAN
   tel. +81-44-856-2141
   fax. +81-44-856-2235
   e-mail: scis92@IBL.CL.nec.co.jp



CRYPTOGRAPHIC PRODUCTS

There were demonstrations of cryptographic products at Asiacrypt '92,
both hardware and software. It appears that the civilian market in Japan
for cryptographic products is still undeveloped compared to those in
Europe or North America.  Fewer products are available, and market
demand is small so far.  There are some sophisticated products,
especially from companies such as NEC and NTT that have been involved in
cryptologic R/D work for a long time.  However, sales do not appear to
be substantial yet.  The companies demonstrating their products included
most of the large integrated electronics companies, and they appear to
be committed to work in this area, as can be seen by the number of
people they have working in it.  There were no small companies
represented that are so common in Europe and North America, consisting
of a few people, and often started by a college professor.  On the other
hand, there were presentations by some companies that in the West would
not have been expected to engage in sophisticated R/D.


----------------------------END OF REPORT---------------------------------
