Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:9203 alt.security:7857
Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!darwin.sura.net!jvnc.net!yale.edu!ira.uka.de!math.fu-berlin.de!news.netmbx.de!Germany.EU.net!mcsun!uknet!newcastle.ac.uk!tuda!dph3gds
From: Graham.Shaw@newcastle.ac.uk (G.D.Shaw)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security
Subject: Re: Are DES restriction even logically sound?
Message-ID: <Bu5r65.B49@newcastle.ac.uk>
Date: 6 Sep 92 13:08:29 GMT
References: <1992Sep5.164646.21443@uwm.edu>
Organization: University of Newcastle upon Tyne, UK NE1 7RU
Lines: 43
Nntp-Posting-Host: tuda

In article <1992Sep5.164646.21443@uwm.edu> markh@csd4.csd.uwm.edu (Mark) writes:
>
>   Supposing I have a complete description of DES in text form, and I split it
>into 8 parts, with file N containing every 8th character modulo N.
>
>   If 100 people each decide to post one of these files (they make a random
>choice without knowing about the other 99 people even being there), and posts
>it to a place that can be publically accessed outside the US, then have any
>restrictions on DES been violated?  If so, who violated them?  How?

You can do far better than that:

1. Split the article using the original and seven one-time pads (which must
   have good statistics), such that
   DES = A Xor B Xor C Xor D Xor E Xor F Xor G Xor H

2. Hide each of A..H in a form such that they all have some use other than
   re-constructing the original DES code.  (For example, embed them as
   noise in the low-order bits of a picture).

This has the advantage that in isolation, none of the messages transmit
any information at all, and even with all eight it is impossible to prove
which was the original and which were merely keys.

To confuse matters further, add an extra step:

3. HARMLESS1 = A Xor B Xor C Xor D Xor I
   HARMLESS2 = E Xor F Xor G Xor H Xor J

(where HARMLESS1 and HARMLESS2 are meaningful and useful, but of no
significance re. export laws).  Then publish I and J.

Note, however, that as has been pointed out by another poster, US export
laws are concerned with computer programs and hardware devices, not mere
descriptions of DES.

I would also note that whereas this (and several other intellectual
property laws) suffer from a confusion between data flow and information
content, I would not trust the US authorities to worry too much about
legal or indeed logical nicities if they really wanted to get you.

Graham Shaw
Department of Physics, Durham University, England
