Xref: msuinfo alt.security:7953 sci.crypt:9304
Path: msuinfo!caen!uunet!nntp1.radiomail.net!portal!cup.portal.com!gregb
From: gregb@cup.portal.com (Greg - Byrd)
Newsgroups: alt.security,sci.crypt
Subject: Re: PGP *2.0* available
Message-ID: <65782@cup.portal.com>
Date: Sun, 13 Sep 92 09:18:12 PDT
Organization: The Portal System (TM)
References:  <1992Sep13.125302.16476@sol.ctr.columbia.edu>
Lines: 32

I've been following the PGP discussion with interest.
Although I have not been involved in the infringement side of patent law, I'd
like to make a few observations.  If any of my comments are wrong, please corre
ct
me since I'm no patent person.

My understanding of hobbyist use of patented technology is that you are free to
build a unit for your own use, regardless of whether it is patented.  This is
essential in order to foster a creative environment.  You are not allowed to 
make money off it, nor to distribute your unit to third parties.  As an example
 I
have certainly read magazine articles detailing how to build a hobbyist project
based on patented technology.  The entire patent system is designed to *disclos
e*
and dessiminate technology.  If you want to keep it secret don't patent it ;=)

The concept of patented algorhythms seems flaky at best.  But the law is aimed
at preventing unfair commercial competition against the developer.  As long as
the law accomplishes that, I shouldn't think there is anything to worry about.

Well, this is further astray than the lock disussion.  (Which I liked.  Anyone
know how to defeat sidebar locks like Medecos?  Email me! ;=)

Don't let me sidetrack the discussion, but I welcome email from anyone who
knows the law to work differently from my understanding stated above.  I'll
share any significant variation which affect PGP distribution.

Greg Byrd ---> Bell    (803) 686-4575
               Snail   Island Technical Group  /  3 Cardinal Ct. #619
                       Hilton Head Island      /  SC  29926
               Email   gregb@cup.portal.com
----- Uh, I didn't say that.  My boss said it!  Yeah.  Yeah. That's it. -----
