Path: msuinfo!caen!uunet!mcsun!uknet!acorn!eoe!ahaley
From: ahaley@eoe.co.uk (Andrew Haley)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: IDEA cipher (was: PGP 2.0 Announcement)
Message-ID: <1412@eouk23.eoe.co.uk>
Date: 16 Sep 92 18:44:55 GMT
References: <1992Sep15.062452.24780@cs.aukuni.ac.nz>
Organization: EO Europe Limited, Cambridge, UK
Lines: 104
X-Newsreader: Tin 1.1 PL5

Peter Gutmann (pgut1@cs.aukuni.ac.nz) wrote:
: In <1407@eouk23.eoe.co.uk> a subliminally implanted suggestion made
:     ahaley@eoe.co.uk (Andrew Haley) write:
: 
: >Peter Gutmann (pgut1@cs.aukuni.ac.nz) wrote:
: 
: >: However the patent owners, Ascom-Tech AG, are being very reasonable about
: >: the patent (totally unlike PKP).  They let us use it in PGP without having
: >: to pay any license fees since PGP is free, and are very approachable about
: >: it's use in other programs.  Still, I ended up not using it in my PGP-compatible
: >: archiver since I have a religious thing about patents - however, IDEA is a very
: >: good cipher and the way the patent is being administered is one of the more
: >: enlightened I've seen.
: 
: >I utterly disagree.  There is no way to describe the enforcement of an
: >algorithm patent as "enlightened".  It's like saying "Frank is a good
: >jailer, he doesn't tie my shackles too tight".  They (the IDEA
: >licensors) _do not_ allow the free use in PGP in general, only in
: >noncommercial cases.  Which means that you and I can communicate with
: >PGP until we wish to discuss business; then we have to start paying
: >money.

Apparently this is not the case; anyone can use PGP, for any purpose.
Only if someone uses IDEA in another product does the licensing apply.
I stand corrected.

: (I know followups were redirected to comp.patents but what I'm about to say
:  is probably more relevant to sci.crypt)
: 
: The reason PGP uses a patented cipher is that there is no real alternative.
: Triple DES is way too slow, as well as being *the* major target for US export
: restrictions.

What does "way too slow" mean?  It depends on the implementation.  I
have just encrypted a 600 kbyte file with the fastest DES program that
I know of (the one I wrote ;-).  The encryption took 16 seconds.  I
then encrypted the same file using pgp -c.  It took 54 seconds.  IDEA
is not a fast encryption algorithm.

DES can be converted into a series of table lookups to allow fast
computation, but IDEA always requires four modular multiplications in
each round, and no amount of clever coding will speed that up.

: Other algorithms are either patented, have been compromised
: (mainly by differential cryptanalysis), or both.  IDEA has been shown to be
: more resistant to differential cryptanalysis than most other ciphers (including
: DES).

I don't think that this is so important.  Any product cipher can be
made resistant to differential cryptanalysis by increasing the number
of rounds.  The trade off is between speed and security.  Perhaps IDEA
requires less rounds to be secure, but if each round takes twice as
long to execute, nothing has been gained.

: It is currently under intense scrutiny by crypto experts in a number of
: countries (I think the PGP docs include information on this).

This is true.  Perhaps it would have been better to wait until more
time had passed before using IDEA.  I speak as someone who got
somewhat burned when FEAL was successfully attacked by using
differential cryptanalysis.

: The main point here is that if there's nothing else available then using a
: (as far as anyone can tell rather good) patented cipher is better than using
: a do-it-yourself one of dubious security.  

I don't disagree with this.  It just seems that DES was rejected
because no-one had fast DES code.

: It's rather sad that there's
: nothing good/unrestricted available for public use (they're either
: export-restricted or patented or haven't been widely analyzed).  Using IDEA
: was probably the best choice...

IDEA is export-restricted in COCOM countries, just as DES is.

: 
: Peter.
: 
: ObFootnote: I'm religiously against software patents, and I'm not defending
:   them here.  I agitated against the use of a patented cipher in PGP on the
:   grounds that noone could write any PGP-compatible software without running
:   into the IDEA patent, since you *must* use IDEA to read the keyrings.  One
:   of the reasons the keyrings have provision for OEM cipher ID's for keyrings
:   is to allow the use of non-patented algorithms to protect secret keys.  In
:   my PGP-compatible archiver I use an OEM ID for the encryption algorithm
:   used to protect the keys - no way I'm going to get caught up in a patent
:   wrangle.  If anyone wants to protect PGP keyrings with their own non-
:   patented ciphers, ID's of 64 and up are available (although it would be a
:   good idea to check if anyone else is using them before you blindly define
:   your own ID).
: 
:   Any comments on this scheme?

Let's allocate one for CBC mode DES.  There's lots of code available
which already uses DES in this mode, and at least there would be one
less patent to deal with.  This is important for us in Europe, because
the RSA patent does not apply here, but the IDEA patent possibly does.

K: --
:     pgut1@cs.aukuni.ac.nz || peterg@kcbbs.gen.nz || peter@nacjack.gen.nz
: 			 (In order of preference)

Andrew.
