Path: msuinfo!caen!uakari.primate.wisc.edu!ames!pacbell.com!tandem!zorch!claris!James_Zuchelli@qm.claris.com
From: James_Zuchelli@qm.claris.com (James Zuchelli)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: RE: Pink Box and Sneakers
Message-ID: <15175@claris.com>
Date: 18 Sep 92 00:47:16 GMT
Sender: news@claris.com
Distribution: na
Organization: Claris Corp
Lines: 33
Nntp-Posting-Host: zuchelli

Regarding the pink box that converted apple II programs to Mac programs:

Actually as I remember the pink box converted the object code running on the
apple II into Object code that ran on the Mac.  The purpose was to allow 
Apple II developers to port their existing code to the Mac.  The idea was that t
the developer knew enough about the program to see to it that everything was
used.  The demo only ran for a while, as I recall when they were through, they 
disconnected the poink box and had a program that ran on the Mac.

This demo was at Apple in Cupertino for a presentation to the Software 
Entrepeneur's Forum.  There were about thirty to 40 developers and the like
there, many with Phd's formStandford.  
John Draper, aka Capt'n Crunch was there and he was skeptical at first, 
raising several issues which were all addressed by the company.

When it was over everyone was duly mpressed and felt that we had witnessed
a revolution in computers.

The pink box had a number of sophisticated circuits in it, the box was actually
some type of plastic, the circuits being sealed in a solid block.
I thinkthe company's name was Abiton or something like that, they were from 
Santa Barbara.  (not the scanner company with the same name.)  I think it
was a real demo, not a scam, they weren't looking for investors, but
customers and they wanted to know if there was a market with developer's
for their product.

I never heard anymore about it, personally I think the intellegence community
got it.

James Zuchelli
--------------------
The above is my opinion only and does not represent that of Claris Corp. or
my employer.
