Path: msuinfo!caen!spool.mu.edu!agate!agate!dreier
From: dreier@beirut.berkeley.edu (Roland Dreier)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Public Key for the Rest Of Us
Followup-To: sci.crypt
Date: 18 Sep 92 11:32:11
Organization: U.C. Berkeley Math. Department.
Lines: 28
Message-ID: <DREIER.92Sep18113211@beirut.berkeley.edu>
References: <8103@lee.SEAS.UCLA.EDU>
NNTP-Posting-Host: beirut.berkeley.edu
In-reply-to: ygoland@edison.seas.ucla.edu's message of 18 Sep 92 09:17:26 GMT

In article <8103@lee.SEAS.UCLA.EDU> ygoland@edison.seas.ucla.edu (The Jester) writes:
   Since it seems rsa can not really be used by the American public
   because of it's proprietary status and since it also seems that the
   upcomming standard from the u.s. government has more holes than your
   average slice of swiss cheese (anything the NSA or DoD touches, I
   try to stay away from) is it possible for a third party of good will
   (i.e. just about anyone on internet) to establish their OWN form of
   public key encryption using the fundamental idea of factoring a
   large number into it's component primes WITHOUT violating any
   patents or proprietary interests? In other words, can we actually
   get math without a patent?

Apparently, RSA believes their patent covers all forms of public-key
cryptography. So the answer to your question appears to be no: if you
come up with a cryptosystem that has the desirable properties of a 
public-key system, RSA will threaten you with a lawsuit.  Also, I have
not heard of any holes in the new gov. standard (I assume you are talking
about the DSS, which is just a signature standard)-- what have you heard?

By the way, I find it very strange that people are willing to use MD5 and
complain about the patent status of IDEA.  MD5 comes from PKP, after all,
and even if they are generous with how they let you use MD5, look at the
way the administer the patent on public-key cryptosystems (e.g. RPEM-- 
Rest in Peace...even PGP is highly restricted).


--
Roland Dreier                                        dreier@math.berkeley.edu
