Xref: msuinfo alt.security.pgp:48 sci.crypt:9446
Newsgroups: alt.security.pgp,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!sdd.hp.com!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!uchinews!lucpum.it.luc.edu!lucpul.it.luc.edu!hmiller
From: hmiller@lucpul.it.luc.edu (Hugh Miller)
Subject: Info-PGP Mailing List
Message-ID: <hmiller.717056434@lucpul.it.luc.edu>
Summary: New mailing list
Keywords: info-pgp mailing list
Sender: root@lucpum.it.luc.edu (System PRIVILEGED Account)
Organization: Loyola University Chicago
Date: Mon, 21 Sep 1992 06:20:34 GMT
Lines: 35

    This is to announce formation of an Internet mailing list, Info-PGP.
    Info-PGP is a mailing list/interest group dedicated to discussion of
Phillip Zimmerman's `Pretty Good Privacy' (PGP) public-key encryption program
for MS-DOS, Unix, VMS, Atari, Amiga, SPARC (and hopefully other) operating
systems.  It is primarily intended for users on Internet sites without access
to the `alt.security.pgp' newsgroup.  All submissions to alt.security.pgp will
be saved to Info-PGP, as well as occasional relevant articles from sci.crypt
or other newsgroups.  Info-PGP will also contain mailings directed to the list
address.
    To SUBSCRIBE to Info-PGP, please send a (polite) note to
info-pgp-request@lucpul.it.luc.edu.  This is not a mailserver; there is a
human being on the other end, and bodiless messages with "Subject:" lines
reading "SUBSCRIBE INFO-PGP" will be ignored until the sender develops
manners.  To SUBMIT material for posting to Info-PGP, please mail to
info-pgp@lucpul.it.luc.edu.  In both cases, PLEASE include your name and
Internet "From:" address.  Submissions will be posted pretty well as received,
although the list maintainer / moderator reserves the right to omit redundant
messages, trim bloated headers & .sigs, and other such minor piffle.  I will
not be able to acknowledge submissions, nor, I regret, will I be able to pass
posts on to alt.security.pgp for those whose sites lack access.  Ars longa,
vita brevis.
    I am currently searching for an Internet site which will afford Info-PGP
an anonymous-ftp archive home.  If any of you have any ideas, please drop me a
line at info-pgp-request@lucpul.it.luc.edu.  Film at 11.
    Oh, yes: ALL CONTRIBUTIONS CONSIDERED AS PERSONAL COMMENTS; STANDARD
DISCLAIMERS APPLY.

Hugh Miller       | Asst. Prof. of Philosophy |  Loyola University Chicago
FAX: 312-508-2292 |    Voice: 312-508-2727    |  hmiller@lucpul.it.luc.edu

-- 
Hugh Miller         | Dept. of Philosophy | Loyola University of Chicago
Voice: 312-508-2727 |  FAX: 312-508-2292  |    hmiller@lucpul.it.luc.edu
In this world of sin and sorrow, there is always something to be thankful      
 for; as for me, I rejoice that I am not a Republican. -- H. L. Mencken
