Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!sdd.hp.com!cs.utexas.edu!milano!cactus.org!ritter
From: ritter@cactus.org (Terry Ritter)
Subject: Re: PGP *2.0* available
Message-ID: <1992Sep21.211037.7512@cactus.org>
Organization: Capital Area Central Texas UNIX Society, Austin, Tx
References: <1992Sep7.142336.5733@ghost.dsi.unimi.it> <books.83.0@fsunuc.physics.fsu.edu>
Distribution: na
Date: Mon, 21 Sep 1992 21:10:37 GMT
Lines: 79


 In <books.83.0@fsunuc.physics.fsu.edu> books@fsunuc.physics.fsu.edu
 (Roger Books) writes:

>So what you are saying is any public key encryption is useless to me
>because the odds of me being able to get in direct touch with people to
>verify keys (especially if they change them often) is next to nill.  As
>I am connected more than Joe Public this implies encryption is useless to
>them.  Get a grip,

 Get a grip yourself, I don't make the rules.  If you want to blame
 something, blame Mathematics, blame Logic or blame Philosophy.
 Blame yourself for expecting what reality does not deliver.  The
 naive application of public key technology is limited in what it
 can achieve.  Sorry.  Not my fault.


>I find it hard to believe that there is someone between
>me and the machine that carries news to the world.  (Unless they get at some
>of MY hardware I don't think it's economically feasable.)

 The designers of public key cryptosystems are fond of saying that
 their system will need x-hundred years for a q-level supercomputer
 to break the cipher.  If we describe such an investment in dollars,
 these designs are apparently intended to resist multi-trillion-dollar
 attacks.  Now, describe in dollars the effort needed to subvert
 Internet itself, and "every" node in Internet.  It seems to me that
 subverting Internet must be a *far* cheaper approach.  Therefore,
 the real security is not that reported in the scientific papers.

 Note that once the "entire" system is subverted (or just a lot of
 it), *all* traffic is available, and not just the original target.
 Access would be extremely cheap, once the subversion is in place.
 Probably much cheaper than a "bag job."  Depending on how much of
 that goes on, it may actually be cheaper to subvert networks
 just to replace existing physical approaches.


>Here's my public
>key.  My USENET access is screwey, I get everything at least twice.  This
>includes my own posts.  If you don't here me screaming soon you'll know this
>is my public key.

 Well, dream on.  I expect that any local subversion process will
 anticipate the possibility of a changed message coming back.  There
 are inherent limits to this, of course, but simply finding reflected
 messages should be pretty easy.  News systems generally do this as
 a matter of course.

 And none of this says anything at all about the possibility that the
 *next* nodes could be subverted.  Or that those nodes close to the
 recipient might be subverted, or that the recipient's home node
 might be subverted.

 Yeah, you could laugh about the unthinkable possibility that anyone
 could subvert internetworks.  Laugh on.  The problem of cryptography
 is to *absolutely prevent* information disclosure *even in* such an
 environment.  Naive public key technology does not do this.

 That said, no program whatsoever can provide real secrecy by itself.
 Security is a philosophy, a way of life.  If all someone has to do
 is to sit across the street and monitor your CRT screen emissions,
 then your level of security may be worth a few hundred dollars.
 Someone really worried about their own security probably has a lot
 of work--and a lot of changing--to do.

 However, because a subverted network can be applied so cheaply
 (once it is in place), network subversion is an issue even at
 relatively low levels of security.  Indeed, network insecurity
 is insidious in the way it can expand to include all those who
 use a subverted channel to validate keys.  All it takes is an
 non-validated key like those now being attached to various news
 signatures.

 ---
 Terry Ritter   ritter@cactus.org



