Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!daisy.learning.cs.cmu.edu!Marc.Ringuette
From: Marc.Ringuette@daisy.learning.cs.cmu.edu
Subject: Re: PGP 2.0 and USENET
Message-ID: <9209221904.AA01142@news.cis.ohio-state.edu>
Sender: daemon@cis.ohio-state.edu
Organization: The Ohio State University Department of Computer and Information Science
Date: Tue, 22 Sep 1992 17:26:00 GMT
Lines: 64

Gordon Burditt (gordon@sneaky.lonestar.org) gives a protocol for checking a
public key by sending it to the associated email address and seeing if the
entity there knows it / uses it.

> but unless they can intercept mail, not easy for a minor nuisance with 
> no budget, they can't fake "Dan Quayle <dquayl@whitehouse.dc.usa.gov>".
...
> Am I taking this too seriously, or not being paranoid enough?

Not paranoid enough, Gordon.  Your method is useful against "a minor 
nuisance with no budget" but that isn't the kind of protection we should 
strive for.  And how minor is minor?  An enterprising hacker (with no
budget) can still intercept your mail if there's some software entry into
your system or your friend's or a router in between.  The basic technique
is to install a software demon which attempts to consistently alter each 
message it sees.

Maybe we should make a list of the security assumptions we must be
willing to settle for when using a given system for key exchange.
Then you can take your pick.  (Of course, these assumptions are in 
addition to the assumptions that the cryptosystem is secure, the
software you're running works, and no one is monitoring your display.)


    Method				     Assumption

public key without secure key 		Nobody will actively and consistently
exchange but with periodic checks	spoof my communications.

telephone verification of keys		Nobody will spoof me and spoof AT&T
(using AT&T white pages)		and talk convincingly on the phone.

Friend of a friend verification		I know my friends' public keys and
					they aren't going to lie to me.

Multiple ACLU's verification		I know the public keys of several
					trusted parties like the ACLU, and
					they won't all get together to lie
					to me, and both I and my friend have
					checked our own public keys to make
					sure they appear correctly in some
					of the agencies' data bases.

My "secure newsgroup" suggestion	No group of >25% of official 
					subscribers to the group will 
					form a conspiracy to defraud me.

PEM certification hierarchy		I can correctly learn the "root" 
					public key, and so can my friend,
					and no agency in the hierarchy will
					fake a public key for me or my friend.


Does anybody have another method to add to the list?

Looking back over these, I think I like the "multiple ACLU's" method best.
Watchdog groups each maintain a database of (address, public key) pairs.
You can check your public key in each database, and request signed copies
of other people's public keys from each database.  As long as one of the
watchdog groups is honest, you are assured of getting the public key
correctly if at all.


-- Marc Ringuette (mnr@cs.cmu.edu)
