Path: msuinfo!caen!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!usc!helleset
From: helleset@solar.usc.edu (Tor Helleseth)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Eurocrypt'93
Date: 23 Sep 1992 10:40:33 -0700
Organization: University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA
Lines: 72
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <19qa6hINNfav@solar.usc.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: solar.usc.edu
Keywords: Cryptography



                       CALL FOR PAPERS
                        EUROCRYPT `93

                       May 24--27 1993
                Hotel Ullensvang, Lofthus, NORWAY

A Workshop on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques
Sponsored by the International Association for Cryptologic Research 
(IACR)

Original papers are solicited on all aspects of the theory and 
applications of cryptography including symmetric and asymmetric 
ciphers, authentication, cryptanalysis, protocols, secure 
transactions, sequences and linear complexity, signatures, hardware 
and software topics, security of telecommunication systems and 
computer networks.

The authors are requested to send 12 copies of an extended abstract 
of at most 10 doubled-spaced pages to the Programme Chair at the 
address given below. The abstract should clearly indicate the 
results achieved, their significance, and their relation to other 
work in the area.

To facilitate blind refereeing, authors are asked to supply a 
separate cover page indicating title and author, and start the 
next page with title and abstract of the paper.

The deadline for submissions to the conference will be January 10, 
1993. Submissions that deviate significantly from these guidelines 
risk rejection without consideration of their merits. 

Authors will be notified about the acceptance or rejection of their
papers by March 31, 1993.

A compilation of all accepted abstracts will be available at the 
conference. Proceedings from the conference are planned to be 
published in Springer Verlag Lecture Notes in Computer Sciences.


Programme Chair: 			General Chair:
Prof. Tor Helleseth 			Kare Presttun 
Department of Informatics 		Alcatel Telecom Norway AS
University of Bergen 			Eurocrypt'93
Hoyteknologisenteret 			Box 255 Okern
N-5020 Bergen 				N-0510 Oslo
NORWAY 					NORWAY
E-mail: torh@ii.uib.no 		E-mail: eurocrypt93@alcatel.no

Programme Committee Members:
Ivan Damgaard, Univ. of Aarhus, Denmark; 
Yvo Desmedt, Univ. of Wisconsin, USA; 
Dieter Gollman, Univ. of London, UK; 
Ingemar Ingemarsson, Univ. of Linkoping, Sweden; 
Kaoru Kurosawa, Tokyo Inst. of Techn., Japan; 
Jim Massey, ETH Zurich, Switzerland; 
Andrew Odlyzko, AT&T Bell Labs, USA; 
Bart Preneel, Univ. of Leuven, Belgium; 
Alfredo De Santis, Univ. of Salerno, Italy; 
Claus Schnorr, Univ. of Frankfurt, Germany; 
Jennifer Seberry, Univ. of NSW, Australia.








 

