Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!caen!sdd.hp.com!cs.utexas.edu!milano!cactus.org!ritter
From: ritter@cactus.org (Terry Ritter)
Subject: Re: PGP 2.0 and USENET
Message-ID: <1992Sep23.182529.21715@cactus.org>
Organization: Capital Area Central Texas UNIX Society, Austin, Tx
References: <9209221904.AA01142@news.cis.ohio-state.edu>
Date: Wed, 23 Sep 1992 18:25:29 GMT
Lines: 43


 In <9209221904.AA01142@news.cis.ohio-state.edu> Marc.Ringuette@daisy.
 learning.cs.cmu.edu writes:

>Does anybody have another method to add to the list?

 It seems to me that there are only two really different schemes
 on the list:  Telephone Verification, and all the rest.  What the
 rest have in common is the assumption that we will have at least
 one validated key.  With a validated key (and a helpful partner)
 we can leverage the world.  The problem is *getting that key*.

 Also note that every public key has a private partner which must
 be kept absolutely secure; signing generally depends upon that
 security.

 Consider the "Multiple ACLU's" approach:  Can we believe that any
 agencies which use volunteers, and which are generally "open,"
 can possibly keep a key really secure?  What happens when trusted
 workers move on; isn't the public key guaranteed to change rather
 frequently, and if so, how can we simply assume that we have the
 updated (secure) key?  And if one agency is not secure enough,
 can multiple such agencies really provide additional security?
 (If the Opponent can penetrate one, we can't reasonably doubt that
 they can penetrate another.)

 Separate channel validation is a distinct approach.  This might be
 a personal face-to-face meeting (although we might meet a stand-in),
 a telephone call (which could be spoofed), real-time direct radio
 contact (using ham radio for this would probably be technically
 illegal), snail-mail (even though this could be lost or opened
 and spoofed), etc.  And validation is not a one-shot deal; to
 minimize the data at risk, keys must be changed periodically, and
 each key change really needs a separate validation.

 Public key has added something:  We don't care if someone copies
 the public key; we don't have to hide it.  We just care that we
 get--and keep--a key which has not been changed.

 ---
 Terry Ritter   ritter@cactus.org


