Path: msuinfo!caen!sdd.hp.com!cs.utexas.edu!torn!cunews!revcan!micor!uuisis!tanda!marc
From: marc@tanda.isis.org (Marc Thibault)
Reply-To: marc@tanda.isis.org
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: PGP 2.0 and USENET
Message-ID: <739772941DN5.61R@tanda.isis.org>
References: <BupsAF.Hjr@sneaky.lonestar.org>
Date: Wed, 23 Sep 92 10:13:44 
Distribution: na
Organization: Thibault & Friends
Lines: 51

In article <BupsAF.Hjr@sneaky.lonestar.org> 
(Gordon Burditt) writes: 
     ....

> Am I taking this too seriously, or not being paranoid enough?
> I notice that I haven't seen any posted PGP 2 public keys with 
> signatures yet.  Is it just too soon?  People having trouble

        I don't think public keys with certifying signatures are
        appropriate for this phase of the program. The way I see it is
        that we have three distinct issues to deal with:

        1. Making encrypted mail the norm in the same way that
        physical mail in an envelope is the norm.

        2. Making systematic interception difficult to accomplish
        without getting caught at it.

        3. Using e-mail for trusted transactions.

        The first is simply accomplished by publishing public keys and
        encouraging correspondents to use them. This forces system
        administrators, criminals and governments to take
        extraordinary measures to read your mail. This measure is to
        enhance general privacy, not trust, which is why certifying
        signatures are neither needed nor particularly useful.

        The second is accomplished by getting going soon. The more
        widespread the practice of encrypting mail, and the more
        broadly broadcast the keys, the more difficult it becomes to
        intercept. Among other things, nobody can spoof my incoming
        communications if my key is already well known. Anti-spoof
        protocols such as the one suggested by Gordon can help make it
        even more difficult. I strongly disagree with any suggestion
        that people should make frequent key changes. As a spoofer, I
        would be waiting for such an opportunity to put a wedge in
        place.

        The third is a totally separate issue. If a situation requires
        trust (eg. money is involved), I will probably use a
        separate key for the purpose, appropriately certified to our
        mutual satisfaction. As Gordon suggests, there is a
        significant difference between the continuity of persona which
        is sufficient for ordinary internet communications and the
        true identity needed for more important transactions. If I'm
        going to certify someone else's key, we'll be face to face and
        either exchanging media or huddled over the same PC. I don't
        believe there's a reliable "true identity" certification
        possible exclusively over comm lines.

         ,Marc
---

 Marc Thibault        |                              |  Any Warming,
 marc@tanda.isis.org  |  R.R.1, Oxford Mills,        |  Global or otherwise,
 CIS:71441,2226       |  Ontario, Canada  K0G 1S0    |   appreciated.

-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
Version: 2.0

mQBNAiqxYTkAAAECALfeHYp0yC80s1ScFvJSpj5eSCAO+hihtneFrrn+vuEcSavh
AAUwpIUGyV2N8n+lFTPnnLc42Ms+c8PJUPYKVI8ABRG0I01hcmMgVGhpYmF1bHQg
PG1hcmNAdGFuZGEuaXNpcy5vcmc+
=HLnv
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----

