Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:9600 alt.privacy:4485
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy
Path: msuinfo!caen!batcomputer!theory.TC.Cornell.EDU!homer
From: homer@theory.TC.Cornell.EDU (Homer Smith)
Subject: Re: Encryption and Privacy
Message-ID: <1992Sep28.144008.17481@tc.cornell.edu>
Sender: news@tc.cornell.edu
Nntp-Posting-Host: theory.tc.cornell.edu
Organization: Me
Date: Mon, 28 Sep 1992 14:40:08 GMT


     The world is full of small little people with nothing important
to say.
 
     Their feeling is that the only people who have something to say,
who are not being quiet, are up to no good.

     It is perfectly fine with them then if the Government, which
they elect into power, passes laws outlawing privacy, in the
name of catching the bad guys, because if the government listened 
in on THEM, they would hear only silence.

     Those who have nothing to communicate have no need of privacy.
 
     Privacy is basically a directed channel of communication.
 
     It's saying something to A and not to B.
 
     To the silent majority, and I do mean silent, the crime
is not the directing of a communication, it is the presence of
any communication of importance at all.

     To them, they consider that if you are directing a communiction
it's only because you are trying to hide that there IS a communication.

     If you have nothing to communicate and in fact resent those
who do, you will have no need for direct channels to anyone,
and will take efforts to destroy the channels built by others 
to communicate amongst themselves.

     The reason why governments are elected into power such as ours,
is because of the nature of the people that who them into power:
people who have nothing to say, no one to say it to, and
no reason to have it said.
 
     The first thing that such governments do is outlaw privacy,
because what they are really outlawing is communication.
 
     Such people would be perfectly happy if the world
and everyone in it were perfectly silent all the time.
 
     Once privacy is outlawed only outlaws will have privacy.
 
     And they will be our elected officials, you can bet
your sweet life on it.
 
     Silence may be golden, but privacy is precious.  

     Unfortunately, those who have nothing to say, rarely have
ears to hear either.

     Homer






