Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!wupost!waikato!auckland.ac.nz!news
From: pgut1@cs.aukuni.ac.nz (Peter Gutmann)
Newsgroups: news.groups,sci.crypt
Subject: 2nd RFD: sci.crypt.research moderated
Followup-To: news.groups
Date: 1 Aug 1994 10:54:10 GMT
Organization: University of Auckland
Lines: 101
Sender: pgut1@cs.aukuni.ac.nz (Peter Gutmann)
Message-ID: <31ik8i$g2q@ccu2.auckland.ac.nz>
NNTP-Posting-Host: cs13.cs.aukuni.ac.nz
X-Newsreader: NN version 6.5.0 #7 (NOV)
Xref: msuinfo news.groups:110584 sci.crypt:30370



This is the second RFD for the creation of the sci.crypt.research newsgroup.
Since it's now just over halfway through the discussion period, I've decided
I've waited long enough for moderators to volunteer, and have included the
information each volunteer has sent me at the end of this message.  We now have
exactly 5 volunteers for the task, and as the original suggestion was for 5
moderators this nicely avoids the hassle of having to vote for moderators as
well as the group itself.  Unless a wave of new volunteers pop up, I propose
that the existing 5 become the moderators.
 
One other point that people have queried is the choice of name.  I put
sci.crypt.research in the RFD because it follows the pattern of a number of
other groups which have both * and *.research sections.  This doesn't mean that
the only thing which can be posted is research-related material, since there is
much may be of general interest but isn't necessarily research- related.  The
important deciding point is the charter of the group rather than the name, and
I believe I've made the scope wide enough to cover anything of interest.  So
far I haven't seen any overriding reason for calling the group
sci.crypt.moderated (although I'm still waiting for words of wisdom from David
Lawrence on the issue).
 
And now, in no particular order, the volunteers for the position of moderator:
 
Michael Paul Johnson <mpj@netcom.com>
 
  I am one of the volunteers to be one of the moderators.  I follow sci.crypt
  and several related news groups regularly.  I hold a Master's Degree in
  Electrical Engineering.  My Master's Thesis was done in the areas of
  cryptography and data compression.  Cryptography is one of my hobbies,
  although I do get a chance to apply some of it at work from time to time.  My
  idea of a moderator is not that of a censor, but simply someone who helps
  direct discussions to the appropriate area.
 
Greg Rose <greg_rose@sydney.sterling.com>
 
  University of New South Wales B.Sc. (honours) in Computer Science, awarded
  the University Medal in 1977.
 
  Founder and Managing Director of Fawnray Pty Ltd (became Neology Ltd).
  Founder and Managing Director of Softway Pty Ltd. Visiting Scientist at IBM's
  Thomas J. Watson Research Center. Most recently Manager of the Open
  Distributed Systems Program at the Australian Computing and Communications
  Institute. Started RoSecure Software Pty Ltd, but got a better offer.
  Currently working for Sterling Software out of Australia.
 
  Involved with the use and development of the UNIX Operating System since its
  arrival in Australia in 1974. Founding secretary and past president of AUUG.
  Founding treasurer of SAGE-AU, the System Administrator's Guild of Australia.
  Board member of the USENIX Association.
 
  Experienced teacher at university and in private courses, mostly involving
  programming languages, operating systems, and implications of software and
  hardware technology.
 
  Use high level prototyping tools, such as the perl programming language and
  the Tcl and Tk toolkits for rapid prototyping and production of complex
  systems, such as protocol translators, terminal emulators, and statistics
  programs.
 
  Interested in the issues of distributed system administration, including
  network management, and development of tools for more effective and
  cost-effective use of network environments. Also security and privacy
  considerations, including use of cryptography.
 
Mark Lomas <tmal@cl.cam.ac.uk>
 
  Mark Lomas is a Research Fellow at The University of Cambridge Computer
  Laboratory, where he studied for his PhD ("Aspects of Computer Network
  Security").  He lectures on Cryptography and Computer Security - an examined
  part of the Computer Science degree.  Mark organised and chairs the Cambridge
  International Workshop on Security Protocols, which is approaching its third
  year.  He is joint winner, along with Li Gong (SRI), Prof. Roger Needham
  (Cambridge), and Prof. Jerry Saltzer (MIT), of this year's IEEE Leonard G.
  Abraham Prize paper award for work on cryptographic protocols.
 
David Wagner <dawagner@princeton.edu>
 
  I'm a lowly undergrad student who got interested in cryptography a few years
  ago.  Since I've learned a good deal from sci.crypt, I figure the least I can
  do is waste a little less time on xmines ;-) and volunteer to help moderate a
  newsgroup.  I'm having a good deal of fun doing some crypto-related stuff
  this summer, so I figure I might even enjoy being forced to read every single
  article on sci.crypt.research. :-)  Anyway, I'm no expert, but at least I
  should be able to separate the signal from the noise.
 
Peter Gutmann <pgut01@cs.aukuni.ac.nz>
 
  I have been interested in cryptography for a number of years, and during that
  time have helped work on PGP and written HPACK, an archiver with strong
  encryption and authentication, and SFS, an encrypting disk driver, along with
  occasional contributions to sci.crypt.  I am committed to spreading the word
  on cryptography despite any impediments such as US export restrictions, and
  as the moderator of comp.compression.research have had some experience in
  newsgroup moderation.
 
Peter.
 
PS: I'll be rather^H^Hvery busy for the rest of the week, so it could take me
    awhile to reply to mail on this issue.

