Path: msuinfo!agate!darkstar.UCSC.EDU!news.hal.COM!olivea!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!yeshua.marcam.com!MathWorks.Com!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!news.umbc.edu!olson
From: olson@umbc.edu (Bryan G. Olson; CMSC (G))
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Duress codes--the cure may be worse than the disease
Date: 2 Aug 1994 22:50:54 GMT
Organization: University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Lines: 41
Message-ID: <31mike$5ic@news.umbc.edu>
References: <17002121B3S86.C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: umbc7.umbc.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu wrote: : 
: I guess I don't see the valuein more than one level of duress codes 
: ("giveaway messages".)  If you're seriously under duress, and you give 
: up your giveaway key, you may be okay.  But if you give away 2 keys, how 
: can you prove tothe person who's extracting information from you that 
: you've given him the *last* key?  
: 

Two is not enough, because it is not plausible that you would take the
trouble to use a systems supporting duress and then not use a duress
code.  The arbitrary number of levels creates a "prisoner's dilemma"
situation.

The system _must_ not provide a general method to prove you have given
the *last* key.  If it did, then any key given without this proof is
no longer plausiblely the last.

:    Bruno slaps you around a bit, and you give him the bad poetry password.
: He doesn't believe that's it, so he breaks a couple of ribs.  You give him
: the slightly-incriminating recipie for marijuana brownies.  He now knows
: that there is more than one password.  So he breaks your arm.  Now, you
: tell him the password that yields the really good stuff--illegal contracts,
: lists of names of your subversive group, etc. Is there any reason at all
: for him not to believe that there are a couple more levels?  After he's
: killed you, he may still have lingering doubts about whether, had he been
: a little more careful, you would have finally broken and given him the
: next password.
:  

As you note, since you can never prove you gave him the last key,
giving him a key will not stop the torture.  But then the torture
gives you no motivation to reveal the key.

And then Bruno has no motivation to torture.



Of course, I only claim the system supports plausible duress codes.
The system can not control what Bruno can infer from the user data.

--Bryan
