Path: msuinfo!agate!darkstar.UCSC.EDU!news.hal.COM!olivea!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!yeshua.marcam.com!MathWorks.Com!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!news.umbc.edu!olson
From: olson@umbc.edu (Bryan G. Olson; CMSC (G))
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Graph Isomorphism problem
Date: 2 Aug 1994 23:20:40 GMT
Organization: University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Lines: 48
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <31mkc8$5ic@news.umbc.edu>
References: <9408022112502213@wov.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: umbc7.umbc.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]

John Dehaven (john.dehaven@wov.com) wrote:
:  PG> An example commonly given as a zero knowledge proof is that of graph
:  PG> isomorphism. This is based on the difficulty of discovering an

: Now maybe there is something subtle I am missing about all of
: this, but it seems to me that public-key technology provides a
: "zero-knowledge proof" of a kind.  That is, if someone signs a
: message and sends it back and the message checks out OK then you
: know the person has a secret (the appropriate secret key)
: without any clue about what that secret is.

: For that matter any message you recieve that you can decrypt
: with their public key proves the sender holds the secret key,
: without revealing any knowledge of the secret key, or so it
: seems to me.

: Yes?  No?  If not what?  :-)

Two points:

Zero knowledge implies more than that, and few digital signature
algorithms have been proven equivalent to their underlying problems.

If I get a digitally signed message, I can then reproduce the proof by
repeating the signed message.  On the other hand, the interactive
nature of zero knowledge proofs assures that the verifier gets nothing
he could not have produced _without_ the help of the prover, or at
least nothing which he can show he could not produce himself.

For example, using the graph isomorphism problem, suppose Alice
is proving to Bob that graphs X and Y are isomorphic.  She generates
graphs Z1, Z2...Zn which are randomly distributed over the set of graphs
isomorphic to X and Y.  

Bob then, each 0<i<=n, requests that Alice either provide him with the
isomorphism between Zi and X, or the isomorphism between Zi and Y.

What Bob gets is a pair sets of graphs and proofs that all the graphs
in the first are isomorphic to X, and the other set all isomorphic to
Y.  The distribution of the graphs in the sets is random over graphs
isomorphic to the respective subject graph.  

Anyone can make two such sets of graphs even if the two subject graphs
are _not_ isomorphic.  Even after the isomorphism was proven to Bob,
he can not prove it to anyone else.


--Bryan
