Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uhog.mit.edu!news.kei.com!babbage.ece.uc.edu!hollywood.cinenet.net!hollywood.cinenet.net!not-for-mail
From: ygoland@hollywood.cinenet.net (Yaron Y. Goland)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Authentification and Export
Date: 3 Aug 1994 02:34:36 -0700
Organization: Cinenet Communications,Internet Access,Santa Monica.(310)-399-4421
Lines: 35
Message-ID: <31nobc$3ru@hollywood.cinenet.net>
NNTP-Posting-Host: hollywood.cinenet.net

Having given up on the hope of including public key cryptography in a
program a partner and I are putting together due to export limitations in
the US. I had hoped that at least we would be able to include
authentification technology. Specifically we need a way for one program to
be able to 'prove' it is who it says it is to another program. Private Key
encryption does not do this job well as there is no secure channel
available for key distribution in our working environment. 

This brings me to my questions:The US government now has an official 
'signature' standard. However I was never clear on the royalty status of 
this as there were apparently claims of patent violation. While I heard 
the government settled the issued with patent owner I am not clear if 
the process is still royalty free. Further is the full technical 
specification available and if so where?

My Second question is related:After reading several sources of literature
I have come to believe that zero knowledge proofs may provide just the
authentification features I need. Does anyone "own" (i.e. has patented)
zero knowledge proofs? If so in what countries? Do they sell royalties? 
How do US export laws on cryptography effect the export of products which
use zero knowledge proofs for authentification? Would you trust a product 
based upon Zero Knowledge proofs? What is the 'bullet proof' status of 
these proofs? (The literature I have read has had nothing but praise but 
I know what that is worth.)

		Thank You,
				Yaron Y. Goland
				Senior, Computer Science and Engineering
				School of Engineering and Applied Science
				University of California, Los Angeles

-- 
ygoland@seas.ucla.edu		Senior, Computer Science & Engineering
73160.327@compuserve.com	School of Engineering and Applied Science
				University of California, Los Angeles
