Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!darkstar.UCSC.EDU!news.hal.COM!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!jathomas
From: jathomas@netcom.com (John A. Thomas)
Subject: Re: hardware 2-oscillator RNGs
Message-ID: <jathomasCtyo1w.1A6@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 261-4700 guest)
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
References: <Ctwzxy.AM3@dorsai.org>
Date: Wed, 3 Aug 1994 13:27:32 GMT
Lines: 33

Steve_Allen (stevalln@dorsai.org) wrote:
:    I'm interested in building random-number generators using
: oscillators, but am not sure of the techniques used. One kind
: -Steve <stevalln@dorsai.org>

I have experimented with hardware RNGs and had good results using the 
following method:

Noise from a reverse-biased transistor junction is amplified about 60 dB 
with a bandwidth of 100 Hz - 4000 Hz.  The analog noise is sent to a 
comparator wired as a zero-crossing detector.  The output of the 
comparator is a logic level of random period but with a 50% duty cycle.  
This level gates a 5 Mhz TTL oscillator, producing bursts of pulses of 
random length.  These pulses are counted by an 8-bit counter.  The output 
of the counter is latched and sampled periodically to obtain random 
bytes.  I used a sampling rate of 1000 bytes/sec to allow the 
slowest-changing bit of the counter to turn over at least 10 times.

Statistical tests show good results.  For long files (>100K) a slight 
predominance of "1" bits begins to affect the results.  Probably a result 
of some sampling artifact, but I haven't tracked it down.  Anyway, 
XOR-ing successive bytes together eliminates this.

AT&T used to make a RNG chip, the T7001, which used the phase jitter of a 
free-running oscillator to generate random numbers in a similar way.  I 
was recently told that this chip is no longer manufactured.  I find this 
hard to believe, especially for a company supposed to be making encrypted 
phones.  Where are they getting the session keys?  Or is this a 
government effort to control the "precursor" equipment for voice encryption?

John A. Thomas
jathomas@netcom.com

