Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!overload.lbl.gov!ames!hookup!yeshua.marcam.com!MathWorks.Com!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!uunet!brunix!kjb
From: kjb@cs.brown.edu (Ken Basye)
Subject: Encrypted time capsules?
Message-ID: <1994Aug3.184148.10326@cs.brown.edu>
Sender: news@cs.brown.edu
Organization: Brown University Department of Computer Science
Date: Wed, 3 Aug 1994 18:41:48 GMT
Lines: 50


    I've been struck recently by a number of incidents of people being
forced to produce their private diaries to investigating authorities.
Assuming that anyone who can be forced to produce a diary could also
be forced to produce any key they might hold, as well as any
algorithms used to encrypt, it would seem like a solution might be to
develop a system in which the writer does not hold the key, but can
recover it at some point in the future.  Of course, this limits the
usefulness of the diary; e.g., it cannot be used to help one recall
what happened last week.  Nevertheless, if the primary purpose of the
diary is to provide a record for posterity, then perhaps the writer
would settle for a diary which could only be read 10 years hence.
    One scheme for doing might this use a two-keyed system, like that
used in public key cryptography.  In this scheme, one key is used to
encrypt the diary, while the other, which will be used for decryption,
is somehow made unavailable until the desired time interval has
passed.  The difficulty with this scheme is that it seems to require
having both keys before any encryption can begin.  One is then left
with the problem of how to "get rid" of the decryption key for a
suitably long period of time.  One way to do this would be to escrow
the key with some institution that (one hoped) could not be
compromised (even with the writer's cooperation, which could be
coerced), e.g.  a Swiss Bank(?).  Or, one might find some secure place
to put the key that could not be accessed until the desired time,
although it's hard to imagine where.
    Another, more interesting and probably more secure way might be to
build the keys from data acquired from some recurring physical process
with a very long period and then simply destroy the decryption key
with the expectation of recovering it again from the same process in
the next cycle.  One would need to be assured that no one else had
collected the data used and stored it, and also that the process was
sufficiently inscrutable that the data could not be recovered using a
theoretical analysis or simulation of the process.  
    This brings to mind several questions.  Have schemes for building
encrypted time capsules been developed?  Is is possible to construct a
one-time pad system with two distinct keys that could be used in the
way described above?  What sort of physical processes might be
appropriate?
    If you've gotten this far, thanks for bearing with me.

        Ken B.

Internet/CSnet  kjb@cs.brown.edu     U.S. MAIL  Ken Basye
UUCP            uunet!brunix!kjb                Dept. of Math and CS
                                                Clark University
                                                950 Main St.
                                                Worcester, MA  01610



