Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!math.ohio-state.edu!jussieu.fr!univ-lyon1.fr!swidir.switch.ch!newsfeed.ACO.net!Austria.EU.net!EU.net!uunet!imsi.com!newshost!perry
From: perry@snark.imsi.com (Perry E. Metzger)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Rubic Encryption Algorithm (comments please)
Date: 08 Aug 1994 14:58:57 GMT
Organization: Partnership for an America Free Drug
Lines: 40
Message-ID: <PERRY.94Aug8105858@snark.imsi.com>
References: <940808074752@are107.lds.loral.com>
Reply-To: perry@imsi.com
NNTP-Posting-Host: snark.imsi.com
In-reply-to: hahn@newshost.lds.loral.com's message of Mon, 8 Aug 1994 12:47:52 GMT


In article <940808074752@are107.lds.loral.com> hahn@newshost.lds.loral.com  (Karl Hahn) writes:

>This post solicits comments on an algorithm I'll call the Rubic
>encryption, due to its abstract resemblence to a Rubic Cube. 

[Most of what Mr. Hahn thinks is important part of the algorithm
deleted. Then we get to what is actually the important part of
the algorithm.]

>We shall assume we have a key stream generator that generates numbers
>1 through 9 in some cryptographically secure way.

That, Mr. Hahn, is your actual algorithm. Your system is no more
secure than your cryptographic random number generator. What you have
left as a side detail is what most people would consider to be the
core of their algorithm. Given a cryptographically secure random
number generator, why not just XOR the stream it outputs with your
text and be done with it? Saying, at one point, "assume a
cryptographically secure random number generator" is like saying, in a
description on "how to perform brain surgery": "assume that you have a
talented brain surgeon who will actually do the surgery for you".

As for your system itself, it is a stream cipher. It superficially
resembles a generalization of one of the rotor machines or other
mechanical polyalphabetic systems of the earlier part of this century,
modulo the fact that you have assumed a magic function to select the
next state. Whether it is more or less interesting than such systems
is hard to say, since there is no way to determine what the actual
next state function will be -- and if it is simply a cryptographically
secure random number generator, there is no point in using your system
when one has a cryptographic random number generator.

--
Perry Metzger		perry@imsi.com
--
Are American citizens really so neurotically uptight about deviant
sexual behavior that we will allow our entire information
infrastructure to be dictated by the existence of pedophiles?
				-- Bruce Sterling
