Newsgroups: sci.crypt,rec.radio.amateur.digital.misc,rec.radio.scanner
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!news.duke.edu!godot.cc.duq.edu!toads.pgh.pa.us!newsfeed.pitt.edu!uunet!news.sprintlink.net!news.dorsai.org!stevalln
From: stevalln@dorsai.org (Steve_Allen)
Subject: Re: 900 MHz spread spectrum systems
Message-ID: <Cu8oLH.11v@dorsai.org>
Followup-To: sci.crypt,rec.radio.amateur.digital.misc,rec.radio.scanner
Organization: The Dorsai Embassy, New York, NY
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
References: <325vel$3ua@newshost.lanl.gov>
Date: Mon, 8 Aug 1994 23:15:16 GMT
Lines: 28
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:30654 rec.radio.amateur.digital.misc:4421 rec.radio.scanner:11038

David R. Wolf (wolf@beta.lanl.gov) wrote:
: lately i've become interested in the level of security actually provided by
: the 900 mhz spread spectrum phones.  for instance, could a hacker with a
: pc and a smattering of outboard hardware have a good chance of decoding one's
: 900MHz phone calls?

: does anyone have any details on the ss systems used in, say, the escort
: phones?  spreading sequence generator, moduation methods, synchronization
: schemes, etc.?  one of the felows that i talked with at cincinnatti microwave
: suggested that their phones choose a spreading sequence randomly whenever the
: phone gets used.  is this true?

   My understanding is that these phones use direct sequence spread spectrum.
I was browsing thru a book on this the other day (idly, at the bookstore 
while looking for other stuff), and seem to recall reading that dsss is 
the easiest mode to sync to. I think you sort of slide your sequence back 
and forth over the signal, and when they're synced, the signal gets clear 
in an easily detectable way. (Can't remember the details of that, tho).
   If you know what you're doing, and have the sequence, it should be easy.
   I think there's lots of snake-oil out there involving security of 
these phones. When they say "Uses digital spread-spectrum techniques with 
64,000 different codes," they may probably be saying that there's one 
sequence and 64K access codes to dial out, which is the same as an analog 
cordless with 64K security.
-Steve
p.s. There are reports that the audio is transmitted in the clear on 450 
MHz. Not sure of the signal level, tho.

