Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: ritter@io.com (Terry Ritter)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: My RNG design
Date: 8 Aug 1994 23:50:30 -0500
Organization: UTexas Mail-to-News Gateway
Lines: 49
Sender: nobody@cs.utexas.edu
Message-ID: <199408090450.XAA29876@pentagon.io.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: news.cs.utexas.edu

 In <Cu8opK.15z@dorsai.org> stevalln@dorsai.org (Steve_Allen)
 writes about his physically-random RNG design:


>   I estimate the low-freq jitter at 0.5% peak-to-peak. (Using a
>delayed-sweep scope, I see about 10% p-p jitter on the 20th pulse.
>1/20 of 10% is 0.5%) 0.5% of 214uS (the period of the lf
>oscillator) is about 1 microsecond. This is more than 3 times the
>period of the high-speed oscillator (.279uS).

 Obviously, we have two asynchronous oscillators, and they will
 slip in and out of sync, but, by itself, this is predictable,
 even if the results seem complex.

 The question is:  What causes the jitter?  If, for example, the
 jitter is primarily due to supply variation, what appears to be
 complex may actually be very simple.

 Alternately, if the jitter is due to incomplete charge-dumping
 on the cap, and we get different starting points for each cycle,
 this sequence, too, could be either fairly simple, or it could
 be chaotic.  Even if chaotic, it may still have an average period
 for the overall process which would not be too far wrong.

 It is also at least possible that the jitter is actually due to
 internal device noise when levels are in the linear region and
 switching is about to occur, but I think this the less likely
 alternative.

 In this circuit, all "randomness" depends on the jitter.  There
 is no separate source of noise.  And the simple use of different
 oscillator frequencies is not random, even as they go in and out
 of sync.

 Thus, in the design phase, it is important to try and characterize
 the jitter separate and apart from the gated and counted result.
 By itself, the jittering oscillator may be very understandable and
 predictable.  But by the time we get a result, we will have managed
 to confuse what may be a very understandable action.

 If the jittering oscillator is indeed understandable, we can assume
 that the result will also be predictable, even if it requires a
 very complex prediction.  And general output statistics are very
 unlikely to expose any such problem.

 ---
 Terry Ritter   ritter@io.com


