Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!dircon!mikeb
From: mikeb@tdc.dircon.co.uk (Michael Barney)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto
Subject: Re: Book on Crypto Shennagans
Date: 9 Aug 1994 10:56:32 GMT
Organization: The Direct Connection
Lines: 67
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <327nd0$htf@felix.dircon.co.uk>
References: <mikeb.776265965@tdc>
NNTP-Posting-Host: tdc.dircon.co.uk
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:30668 talk.politics.crypto:6919


I've had several request to pass information along as I get it.  Here is 
what 
I've found out so far (All alleged of course).

The name of the book is "Verschlusselt"  ("Ciphered", with 2 dots 
over the 
"u", please)  It is available in German, but not English yet.  It is 
supposidly 
published out of Switzerland or Germany.

The book was written by a Hans Buehler, formerly with Crypto AG in 
Steinhausen, Switzerland.  According to a report from may 12, 1993 
"Neue 
Zuercher Zeitung" Page 11,28, Hans was imprisoned in Iran for a 3 
year term 
after being found guilty of espionage and illegal contacts with 
military 
personnel.  He was originally also charged with "possessing military 
secrets, 
bribary and the illegal consumption of alcohol".  

He got out after 9.5 months after  he was bailed out by Crypto AG 
after they 
paid (allegedly) about 1 million Swiss Francs.

He was later dismissed from Crypto AG.  One wire report, quoting "Le 
Journal 
De Geneve (JG) from March 10, 1993, Page 17,  indicates that his 
"dismissal is 
not in any way connected with his imprisonment but with subsequent 
developments."
This is allegedly about the same time the book went to the publisher.

In the book, Hans allegedly discusses what Crypto AG did to their 
cipher 
machines to allow others access to the plain information.

I have received a couple of faxes of apparent press releases in French 
I can't 
read, but hope to have them translated in the near term.

If anyone knows where the books can be purchased, I'll be happy to 
provide 
that info also.

Regards,

mikeb@dircon.co.uk
Michael Barney (mikeb@tdc.dircon.co.uk) wrote:
: A book was allegedly published earlier this year by a former salesman of 
: Crypto AG (Switzerland), of things that (allegedly) Crypto AG had done to 
: equipment sold 
: to customers to compromise it.  I am looking for a title and publisher of 
: this book, and if anyone knows where it might be found.

: The salesman was allegedly caught in Iran for over a year after the 
: Iranians found out what the company had done, and (also allegedly) paid 
: about 1 million dollars to get him out.
: In gratitude, he published some dirty little secrets (allegedly)

: Any assistance on the title, author and publisher and even a bookstore 
: would be appreciated.

: Thanks.

: mikeb@dircon.co.uk
