Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!news2.near.net!news.delphi.com!usenet
From: Barbara Gavin <dcigavin@delphi.com>
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: The client-Server Workshop DZAQM02
Date: Tue, 9 Aug 94 12:28:55 -0500
Organization: Delphi (info@delphi.com email, 800-695-4005 voice)
Lines: 102
Message-ID: <hezQkg-.dcigavin@delphi.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bos1g.delphi.com

The Client-Server Workshop
Washington, DC. September 20-22, 1994
Santa Clara, November 8-10,1994

Go Back to the Office with a Plan!

DCI would like to invite you to attend this explosive 
workshop which promises to deliver the latest, most up-
to-date information on the industry's hottest tools!  

No other conference focuses on tool specific 
information like the Client-Server Workshop.  After 
attending this event, you will return to your office armed 
with:

- a short target list of tools that are right for your 
organization complete with detailed product 
information.

- a blueprint for how to move from where you are today, 
be it a host computer environment or trying to integrate 
multiple low-end applications, to successfully deploying 
true client-server technology.

- an action plan for the next steps to take when you get 
back to your office.

Just a few of the experts and Topics at the Client-Server 
Workshop:

Chairman Addresses:

- Herb Edelstein, Principal, Euclid Associates - 
Varieties of Client-Server Architectures
- Christine Comaford, President, Corporate Computing 
- Effective GUI Design

Keynote Sessions:

- Pieter Mimno, President, Technology Insight, Inc. - 
What to Do When You Hit a Brick Wall

- Rich Finkelstein, President, Performance Computing 
Inc. - Selecting a Database Server That is Right for You

- Jeff Tash, President, Database Decisions - Client-
Server Industry Roadmap

Other Sessions You Do Not Want to Miss:

- Bill Reynolds, President, Austin Software Foundry on 
Object-Oriented Analysis, Design and Implementation 
using PowerBuilder

- Steve Montgomery, President, Montgomery and 
Associates, Inc. on Client-Server Mistakes to Avoid

- Christine Comaford, President, Corporate Computing, 
Inc. on Techniques for Rapid Application Development 
of GUI Client-Server Projects

- Eric Schurr, Director of Product Marketing, SQA on 
RAD/QA:  Automating the Testing of GUI Client-Server 
Applications in a RAD Environment

Executives from the leading tool companies will also 
provide you with detailed product information as well as 
where their companies and the market are headed!

The Tool Developers and Tools You Will See Include:

- Workshop Labs - Classroom style demonstrations of 
the tools in action.  You will have dedicated time to ask 
all the questions you can think of!
- Dynasty Technologies - DYNASTY
- Gupta Corporation - SQL Windows 5.0
- Interactive Development Environments/Software 
through Pictures - StP/OMT, StP/IM, StP/SE
- KnowledgeWare, Inc. - ObjectView
- Powersoft Corporation - PowerBuilder
- Uniface Corporation - UNIFACE
- Unify Corporation - Unify VISION
- Symantec - Enterprise Developer
- Trinzic - ObjectPro

	
We will send this brochure via USMail, so be sure to 
include your conventional mailing address.

For your copy of our 16 page brochure, with information 
on registration, please respond to our Compuserve 
Account Number:  74511.1606@compuserve.com or 
call 508-470-3870 or fax 508-470-1992.  Use the 
priority code DZAQM02 in your subject line for best 
service.  
Pass this message along to your colleagues and let them know they do not want to 
miss this unique event!





