Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!tlittle
From: tlittle@netcom.com (Timothy Little)
Subject: Re: RSA not patentable in Europe
Message-ID: <tlittleCuBDxn.1sr@netcom.com>
Followup-To: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 261-4700 guest)
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
References: <31g63k$989@zeus.rbi.informatik.uni-frankfurt.de> <776193622snz@avondale.demon.co.uk> <strnlghtCu6B3r.8vn@netcom.com> <323a53$446@zeus.rbi.informatik.uni-frankfurt.de> <strnlghtCu8H7I.L80@netcom.com>
Date: Wed, 10 Aug 1994 10:17:46 GMT
Lines: 49
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:30704 alt.security.pgp:18676

David Sternlight (strnlght@netcom.com) wrote:

: Still waiting for an answer from someone who might KNOW, rather than people
: trying to speculate using their understanding of the thing.

: I'm not being stubborn here, but we've had plenty of claims over that past
: year about similar matters by people who were not expert, and who were
: proved wrong in the event. Bright people tend to make it up as they go from
: incomplete information by the use of simplistic syllogisms such as:

: Computer programs are not patentable in the EU.
: IDEA is a computer program.
: IDEA is thus not patentable in the EU.

: It turns out it may be more complex than that. For example:

: Computer programs are not patentable in the US.
: RSA is a computer program.
: RSA is thus not patentable in the US.

: The above is fallacious, and rather than examining the details of the
: syllogism, a basically omphaloskeptic exercise, one merely can cite the RSA
: patent number.

: David

I'm not certain about many LAW-related issues.  I do know, and feel that 
algorithms, programs and the like should not be patentable.

In the US, however, many illegal things do occur.  The patent office runs 
by rote-procedure.  I might be misinterpreting the specifics, however 
other cases like this happen often in the US:
Grolliers made a CD ROM encyclopedia.  They patented their search engine 
(a hypertextual and user-entered text input search engine).  Nothing 
special, nothing that hasn't been done a zillion times.  Most programmers 
wouldn't think twice about patenting it.  Why?  Because it's not legally 
patentable.  Grolliers patented it anyways.

Maybe Grolliers didnt understand or know (I am pretty sure they knew they 
were on shakey legal ground).  Maybe the Patent Office didnt know (not 
bloody likely, since that is only their ONLY function in life!).

Once patented, for better or for worse, the item is protected until (or 
unless) the patent is overturned.

Because something is patented does NOT mean it is patentable material.

Tim Little...

