Path: msuinfo!harbinger.cc.monash.edu.au!yarrina.connect.com.au!warrane.connect.com.au!spectrum.apana.org.au!triode.apana.org.au!not-for-mail
From: cskinner@triode.apana.org.au (Christopher T Skinner)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Subject: Re: mobil phone in europe <gms-standard>, a precedence?
Date: 13 Aug 1994 01:57:50 +1000
Organization: Paul Black's Linux Node
Lines: 109
Message-ID: <32g65u$mpt@triode.apana.org.au>
References: <32eot5$jvt@charm.magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu> <32fmjs$ri4@stud.uni-sb.de>
NNTP-Posting-Host: localhost.apana.org.au
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:30763 alt.security.pgp:18819

Mobile Phones:
Walker, M. Security in mobile and cordless telecommunications
CompEuro 1992 Proceedings. Computer Systems and Software
Engineering  p.493-6 ed Dewilde, P.; Vandewalle, J.IEEE
Comput. Soc. Press  Los Alamitos, CA, USA    1992  xviii+717 pp.  USA
4-8 May 1992 The Hague
"DECT uses Standard cipher DCS ..synchronised to the MAC layer frame
numbering. For each standard slot the input to the
PSC is the cipher key and the frame number and the output from the
algorithm is two consecutive key stream sequences
each 360 bits long...GSM is essentially the same...cipher is
re-synchronised on every frame..to enable handover "
- this looks like XOR keys are generated often enough to make the
system strong
- of course it is an algorithmic generation, not a true one-time-pad,
the algorithm must have some sort of regularity  and cycle...
Cooke, J. C.; Brewster, R. L.Cryptographic security techniques for
digital mobile telephones.
Cooke, J.C.; Brewster, R.L. Cryptographic security techniques for
digital mobile telephonesUK
1992 IEEE International Conference on Selected Topics in Wireless
Communications. Conference Proceedings
(Cat.No.92TH0462-2)p. 425-8  Eds: Bhargava, V.K.; Callendar, M.; Toms,
N.  Publisher:    IEEE New York, NY, USA : 1992  xiv+468 pp. 25-26
June 1992: Vancouver, BC, Canada :Aston Univ., Birmingham,
I assume these 2 are the same paper
  "...two types  cellular or cordless
   cellular is E.T.S.I G.S.M900
has a personal commn network variant (PCN-DCS1800) for populated,
small cell areas
cordless (Europe) are CEPT CT2 & ETSI DECT
3 modes domestic cordless, public telepoint, corl\dless PABX
Third generation under specification: merge high rate broadband (ISDN)
& PSTN
with ETSI UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecomns System) for Europe &
GSM:
AUC Authentication Centre
has subscrbers IMSI (International Mobile Subscriber Identity) and Ki
(Subscribers secret key)
Encrypted communication with ADC (Admin Centre)
algorithms depend on particular telecoms operator.....
HLR Home Location Register
secure database, current subscribar location (?)
VLR Visitor Location Register
Authentication:
  TMSI (Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity) sent to current VLR
fromlast VLR
  new TMSI calculated & encrypted & sent to mobile
  AUC uses A3(IMSI-Ki,Rand) to give signed response SRES
      and  A8(Ki,Rand) to give traffic encryption key Kc
      so (Rand,SRES,Kc) is unique authentication set for each call
  AUC sends set to VLR
  VLR sends Rand to mobile
  mobile does same A3 & A8 calculations, sends SRES back to VLR (must
match)    message is encrypted via A5 using Kc
C ooke & Brewster point out that GSM digital cell phone security rests
on confidential algorithms (A3,A5,A8).
It is a principle of cryptography that security should rest on secrecy
of the keys, "and not of the algorithms used".
GSM does not currently use Public Key Cryptography (PKC).
They suggest that PKC should be considered. PKC could "allow the
secure exchange of cryptographic keys without there being any prior
knowledge of a commonly held key"
Currently the subscriber's secret key is held at the authentication
centre as well as in the subscribers chip.
GSM is secure against casual scanners (the Squidgy factor) but not
against insiders at the base station. Legal Authorities can presumably
access the base stations and the secret keys. Any eavesdropping
revealed to the public would publicly compromise the entire GSM
system. The current encryption algorithm (A5) is frame based, so
although it uses a simple XOR method, new keys are produced by
algorithm A8 so frequently that the system is probably secure, if A8
is a good one-way algorithm.
C & Brewster sugggest possible optional "extra features" including
PKC, complete end-to-end security, and the additional requirement of a
password during subscriber authentication.
A GSM call placed in a foreign country currently refers back to the
home country. This may be to preserve secrecy of authentication
algorithms. If two nearby GSM phones wish to connect in a foreign
country, there are two overseas charges involved, no matter how close
the phones are. New end-to-end encryption may be needed to avoid this
situation.
........
Privacy and authentication on a portable communications system.
  Author: Beller, Michael J.; Chang, Li-Fung; Yacobi, Yacov
  Conference Title: IEEE Global Telecommunications Conference -
GLOBECOM '91.Part 3 (of 3)
  Conference Location: Phoenix, AZ, USA  Conference Date: 1991 Dec 2-5
   IEEE Service Center, Piscataway, NJ, USA (IEEE cat n 91CH2980-1). p
1922-1927
  CODEN: CRIEET  ISBN: 0-87942-697-7
  They consider possible PKC for smart card- mobile use
    MSR Modular Square Root (Rabin '79,Williams '80)
    DH  Diffie Hellman 76,85,88
    IMSR Improved MSR

method   Port Authenticated  Secret given to Base    Mod Multiplies
 MSR          no                yes                  1
IMSR          yes               yes                  2
MSR+DH        yes               no                   212
Rates  8-bit microcontroller (75-150mw, 6MHz) one 512 bit modmul =
180ms
       DSP 1 ms
       (386sx < 3ms??)
       the portable may have a DSP for speech transcoding
       (cf RSA 630 modmuls, LUC = 1280 modmuls, before CRT-halfLUC)
 IF a general DSP is available in the handset, MSR+DH is OK
 (as is LUC = ca 0.5 second??)

