Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!EU.net!Germany.EU.net!netmbx.de!zrz.TU-Berlin.DE!buran!behrends
From: behrends@buran.fb10.tu-berlin.de (Reimer Behrends)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Subject: Re: RSA not patentable in Europe
Followup-To: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Date: 13 Aug 1994 06:06:56 GMT
Organization: Technical University Berlin, Germany
Lines: 117
Message-ID: <32hnu0$krt@brachio.zrz.TU-Berlin.DE>
References: <31g63k$989@zeus.rbi.informatik.uni-frankfurt.de> <776193622snz@avondale.demon.co.uk> <strnlghtCu6B3r.8vn@netcom.com> <323a53$446@zeus.rbi.informatik.uni-frankfurt.de> <strnlghtCu8H7I.L80@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: buran.fb10.tu-berlin.de
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL0]
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:30781 alt.security.pgp:18851

Sigh. Not been reading this newsgroup for a couple of weeks and there's
David again, telling us that software is generally patentable in the EU.

Well, this is going to be a 'is not' post.

David Sternlight (strnlght@netcom.com) wrote:
[...]
: I'm still not clear if you're "deducing" that it wouldn't be patentable or
: if you're making a statement as a patent attorney with full knowledge of the
: format of the RSA patent and the IDEA patent in Switzerland and the U.S.

I have the full text of the RSA patent on disk. And while I don't have
the text of the IDEA patent (although I have facsimile copies of other
European cryptographic patents) I can still assert that a computer
program that implements the IDEA algorithm cannot (at least in Germany)
be claimed to fall under any such patent.

The simple reason is that since the fundamental decision of the German
Bundesgerichtshof in 1976 ("Dispositionsprogramm") it has been common
practice that the actual contents of a claim count and not its wording.

First, this makes it impossible to phrase a software claim cleverly
(like "A computer used for executing ...", etc.) to avoid being rejected.

Second, you _can_ phrase a hardware claim with algorithmic means. (See
in particular the decision "Antiblockiersystem" by the Bundesgerichtshof
in 1981 (hope I got the year right, quoting from memory)). Moreover,
such a patent cannot possibly claim pure software implementations of the
same process (There's a very clear decision by the Bundespatentgericht
about a hardware apparatus to implement a special form of the Fourier
transformation, but I don't have the exact reference at hand).

: That's why I suggest the question is not what someone thinks, but whether
: ASCOM AG has, or has applied for EU patents.

This is completely irrelevant. Except, of course, for ASCOM, because if
they worded their patent in a way that doesn't give an 'instruction for
_technical_ activity', they risk getting it rejected in court.

: Still waiting for an answer from someone who might KNOW, rather than people
: trying to speculate using their understanding of the thing.

Sigh, I posted almost the full text of the relevant decision the last
time this topic came up. The principle that a patent claim must contain
an 'instruction for _technical_ acticity' is part of the so-called
continuous jurisdiction in German patent courts (meaning that it is
effectively law). Also that software claims and disguised software
_aren't_ instructions for technical activity. In fact, after a decision
in the early eighties a commentator wrote that he hoped that after the
recent decision people would stop coming up with clever ways trying to
circumvent this. Software patents have been continuously rejected by
German courts throughout the years.

: I'm not being stubborn here, but we've had plenty of claims over that past
: year about similar matters by people who were not expert, and who were
: proved wrong in the event. Bright people tend to make it up as they go from
: incomplete information by the use of simplistic syllogisms such as:

Go and prove me wrong.

: Computer programs are not patentable in the EU.
: IDEA is a computer program.
: IDEA is thus not patentable in the EU.

Incorrect. Computer programs that implement IDEA are not patentable in
the EU (except apparently for the Netherlands). Hardware implementations
of cryptographic systems are quite acceptable.

: It turns out it may be more complex than that. For example:

: Computer programs are not patentable in the US.
: RSA is a computer program.
: RSA is thus not patentable in the US.

Computer programs have been patentable in the US. Unlike Germany, in the
US you can get around the problem by clever wording. In addition, there
has apparently been a decision by the Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit that software is held to be patentable. See over in
misc.legal.computing for details.

: The above is fallacious, and rather than examining the details of the
: syllogism, a basically omphaloskeptic exercise, one merely can cite the RSA
: patent number.

If the premises were true, the above would indeed be fallacious and show
that the US courts seem to be incapable of enforcing the law in that
area.

And of course, RSA _is_ a computer program. See for example claim 23:

 "23. A method for establishing cryptographic communications comprising
the
step of:
 encoding a digital message word signal M to a ciphertext word signal C,
  where M corresponds to a number representative of a message and

 0.ltoreq.M.ltoreq.n-1
 where n is a composite number of the form

 n=p.multidot.q
 where p and q are prime numbers, and
 where C is a number representative of an encoded form of message word
M,
 wherein said encoding step comprises the step of:
 transforming said message word signal M to said ciphertext word signal
C
  whereby

 C.ident.M.sup.e (mod n)

 where e is a number relatively prime to (p-1).multidot.(q-1)."

If this isn't an algorithm, what is it? Does the word signal
miraculously make a computer program into a physical process? Pray tell.

				Reimer Behrends

