Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!EU.net!Germany.EU.net!netmbx.de!zrz.TU-Berlin.DE!buran!behrends
From: behrends@buran.fb10.tu-berlin.de (Reimer Behrends)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Subject: Re: RSA not patentable in Europe
Followup-To: sci.crypt,alt.security.pgp
Date: 13 Aug 1994 19:41:29 GMT
Organization: Technical University Berlin, Germany
Lines: 68
Message-ID: <32j7l9$c8m@brachio.zrz.TU-Berlin.DE>
References: <31g63k$989@zeus.rbi.informatik.uni-frankfurt.de> <323a53$446@zeus.rbi.informatik.uni-frankfurt.de> <strnlghtCu8H7I.L80@netcom.com> <32hnu0$krt@brachio.zrz.tu-berlin.de> <strnlghtCuHK17.8yD@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: buran.fb10.tu-berlin.de
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL0]
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:30789 alt.security.pgp:18874

David Sternlight (strnlght@netcom.com) wrote:
: In article <32hnu0$krt@brachio.zrz.tu-berlin.de>,
: Reimer Behrends <behrends@buran.fb10.tu-berlin.de> wrote:

: [Misstatement of the discussion to date omitted.]

Please specify WHY you perceive it to be misstatement. I wasn't
paraphrasing the debate, I was criticizing a particular post of
yours.

: The actual discussion was started by a claim that crypto such as RSA could
: not be patented in Europe. I suggested that it could, and pointed to IDEA.
: That was followed by a lot of nonsense, changes of subject, and outright
: flames by several. I suggested the simple test (since it never pays to argue
: about facts) of seeing if IDEA was patented in Europe (there had been a lot
: of excuses about maybe only a Swiss patent, Switzerland not being part of
: the EU, etc.).

If you're looking for software patents in Europe, I suggest you try
the Netherlands. Some judges there seem to believe that software
becomes technical as soon as it is loaded into a computer. However,
most countries (like Germany and Britain) have made it 100% clear
that software as such is unpatentable. In general the guideline is
that either a) the novelty of the invention must be reflected in
the hardware or b) a novel use for an existing hardware apparatus
by means of software must be found.

EXECUTING SOFTWARE ON A GENERAL PURPOSE COMPUTER THAT IS USED AS
INTENDED CANNOT POSSIBLY INFRINGE A PATENT.

Sorry for shouting but the above sentence has been cited more than
a dozen times in federal court decisions in Germany. It is _the_ key
why no software implementation of RSA, IDEA, etc. can ever hope for
patent protection over here. (Unless they change the law, of course.)

: This was followed by more flames, nonsense, and people generally making
: fools of themselves by trying to argue about facts, apparently to
: demonstrate how smart they are.

I found many of the statements to be correct, especially those about
software patents in Britain. I can post a sample British court decision
if you'd like to see one. And I wouldn't be too confident about IDEA
as software being patentable in Switzerland. A while ago there was an
article about Swiss patent law in a German journal on intellectual
property rights which gave details. I seem to remember that it wasn't
so much different from what the EU has got.

: Finally, someone on the scene took the trouble to check, and posted the EU
: patent number for IDEA.

Which doesn't tell us anything. Neither does it list the claims, nor any
pending objections. I haven't been able to locate that particular patent.
Even if it exists, it cannot possibly claim software.

: As far as I am concerned:

: 1. Those who attacked my comments have since shown themselves to be
: graceless boors by failing to acknowledge they were wrong;

: 2. Further posts to try to prove that black is white--i.e. that one really
: was arguing about something else, and the IDEA patent is irrelevant, will be
: worth only derisive laughter from one's colleagues here.

The IDEA patent is irrelevant. It cannot possibly claim software. Period.
Go, prove me wrong or be quiet.

				Reimer Behrends

