Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!jathomas
From: jathomas@netcom.com (John A. Thomas)
Subject: Re: My hardware RNG, revised
Message-ID: <jathomasCuJ7HD.6xL@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 261-4700 guest)
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
References: <CuI5x5.2Er@dorsai.org>
Date: Sun, 14 Aug 1994 15:39:12 GMT
Lines: 42

Steve_Allen (stevalln@dorsai.org) wrote:
:    Here's a summary of my revised 2-oscillator Random Number
: Generator as it now stands:
: ... a reverse-biased emitter-base transistor junction
: that puts out about 10mV of noise. That's amplified and low-pass
: filtered (5KHz corner, 2-pole) and amplified to clipping. That
: clipped signal goes to a comparator that cleans up the signal and
: limits it to 5V. 

Do you have access to a spectrum analyzer to check the output of your 
noise amplifier?  A flat spectrum with no spikes at 60 or 120 Hz, or 
anywhere else , should increase your comfort level. Also, is there a loss 
of low-level frequency components by amplifying the noise to clipping?  
If the comparator acts as a zero-crossing detector, you'll get a 50% 
on-off ratio with contributions from weak as well as strong components.
(With some small hystersis error, of course). 

:    Output is taken one bit at a time from the divide-by-4 output of
: this counter.  The PIC takes a bit every 4.096 milliseconds. As
: before, to read one bit the PIC does this:
:  freezes the counter by putting a low on the Nand gate
:  waits 2uS for the input to stabilize
:  reads the /4 output of the counter
:  unfreezes the counter.

This is a good idea.  My experience is that you have to latch the signal 
someway; just reading a counter gives poor results.

:    9600-baud serial output will probably come in the near future.

I think you will have to do this to get enough data for real statistical 
tests.  Be sure and keep us posted.

:  I'm starting to learn more than I thought I'd ever need
: to know about distributions....
: -Steve

I know exactly how you feel.

John A. Thomas
jathomas@netcom.com

