Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!nic-nac.CSU.net!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!csusac!csus.edu!netcom.com!lrk
From: lrk@netcom.com (Lyn R. Kennedy)
Subject: Secret Police Prohibition Act
Message-ID: <lrkCuM2u6.CDy@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 261-4700 guest)
Distribution: usa
Date: Tue, 16 Aug 1994 04:51:42 GMT
Lines: 87

	Feel free to send a copy of this to your congresspersons with
	a cover letter giving your comments and directions.





	The President
	The Vice-President
	The Members of Congress
	of the United States of America



				A Petition


	Whereas, The United States has a government "of the People,
	by the People, and for the People," and

	Whereas, That government is based on a constitution begining
	with the words "We the People", and

	Whereas, That Constitution makes no provisions for the
	establishment of Secret Police, and

	Whereas, the tyrany of Secret Police is known from history,

	Therefore, We the People, demand that you, our duly elected
	representatives in the government, introduce, support, and
	enact legislation to be known as


		The SECRET POLICE PROHIBITION ACT


	to provide criminal penalties for any public servant attempting
	to operate as secret police within the jurisdiction of the
	government of the United States of America or of the States
	therein.

	For the purposes of this petition, the words "people" and
	"citizens" are synonymous and refer to the people described
	by those words in the Constitution of the United States. The
	words "public servant" refer to anyone paid from public funds
	or exercising the authority of any public office for the purpose
	of enforcing the laws of the Federal Government or of the States.


	This act would prohibit public servants from at least the
	following:

	1.  Use of any encryption device.

	2.  Use of any radio device or frequency not known to the people
	    and capable of being monitored by interested citizens. This
	    includes cellphones, mobile data terminals, pagers, etc. if
	    their monitoring by citizens is not clearly legal.

	3.  Use of any surveillance device not known to and available
	    for inspection by interested citizens.

	4.  Use of any premises not known to and available for inspection
	    by interested citizens.



	5.  Concealing the contents of any warrant for arrest, search, or
	    seizure for more than 24 hours after issuance.

	6.  Concealing the seizure of people or property without a
	    warrant.

	7.  Concealing the expenditure of any funds under his/her control.

	8.  Concealing any document setting forth the policies and
	    proceedures under which he/she operates including all
	    general orders, special orders, training manuals, etc.

	9.  Wearing any mask or equipment for the purpose of concealing
	    identity while performing duties.

	10. Failing to identify himself/herself to any citizen on demand.

	11. Concealing the existance of any files or databases and the
	    nature of the information therein.

