Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!noc.near.net!zcias2.ziff.com!merlin.cobb.ziff.com!tony
From: tony@merlin.cobb.ziff.com
Subject: Noobie alert - patience required!
Message-ID: <1994Aug17.005827.1@merlin.cobb.ziff.com>
Lines: 54
Sender: news@zcias2.ziff.com (USENET News System)
Organization: Ziff Information Services
Date: Wed, 17 Aug 1994 05:58:27 GMT


Hello. Interesting group.

What can I read to learn enought to understand the crypt concepts common
in this group?

How many of you actively break codes (cyphers?) for fun or profit?

Is it even feasible for Joe Blow to consider decrypting a modern cypher?

Are there programs available to help?

Is there a FAQ?  A list of books to read, hopefully some that aren't all
greek? 

I read in a help doc (for PGP) that a cypher based on a RNG (like xor
each character with the next "random" number) is actually weak.  Can
somebody explain to me in small words how this can be attacked?

The same guy who said the above also said that creating a
good cypher is hard and amateurs can't do it.  Upon reflection, I
believe him.  So here is a cypher I invented (stole? I don't remember)
many years ago.  How can it be attacked?

1) Pick N keys, each having a length relatively prime length
   DOG
   BIRD

2) XOR each character of plaintext with a letter from each of the keys,
   in a cyclic fashion.  When you rotate off the end of a key, you start
   over at the beginning for that key only.  This would mean the two
   keys above would product these "effective" keys:
   D XOR B
   O XOR I
   G XOR R
   D XOR D
   O XOR B
   etc...
   
   an option here is not to XOR, which seems a little weak to me (but
   convenient) but to actually transpose the character by summing the
   ASCII values for the plaintext with the ASCII values for the keys
   and modulus-ing the result with 255....


Thank you all for indulging me.

-- 
** tony@merlin.cobb.ziff.com | (502) 493-3401 | All opinions my own **
Before you accuse me, take a look at yourself /
Before you accuse me, take a look at yourself /
You say I've been spending my money on other women /
You've been taking money from someone else.
                                   _Before You Accuse Me_, E. McDaniel
