Path: msuinfo!agate!darkstar.UCSC.EDU!news.hal.COM!olivea!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!yeshua.marcam.com!MathWorks.Com!news.duke.edu!convex!cs.utexas.edu!newsfeed.rice.edu!hsdndev!adam
From: adam@bwh.harvard.edu (Adam Shostack)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Clipper phone notes
Date: 17 Aug 1994 19:23:45 GMT
Organization: Brigham & Womens Hospital, Boston
Lines: 48
Message-ID: <32to41$r7i@hsdndev.harvard.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bwh.harvard.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]


	At the HOPE (Hackers On Planet Earth) conference, there were a
pair of AT&T 3600c telephone surety devices on display.  Here are my
recollections of what was said.

	The manual does not mention Clipper at all, but they do have
an interesting disclaimer about how AT&T has no responsibility if the
government, or anyone else, taps your phone.

	Each 3600c is $1300.00.  Each unit is about the size of a
paperback book, and includes a 4800 baud feature rich modem, a clipper
chip, and some adapters to make it work with various phone handsets.
The unit plugs in between the handset and the phone base unit.

	The hackers who bought the things had quite a hard time
getting them to work at all.  There were troubles getting it set up so
that it would attempt to go into secure mode, and trouble getting it
to do so reliably once a pair of phones that worked were found.  AT&T
service blamed the problems on line noise.  The people doing the
testing said they had no problems running 28.8 modems through their
local phone lines.

	To make the unit go into secure mode, one person pushes a red
button.  The unit sends touchtone 2587 (we wern't sure why; someone
suggested as a means of calibrating.  258 are in the same row on the
phone.)  Then the modems do their thing, making modem noises for about
10-20 seconds.  Once connected, the sound is very weak.  We in the
conference had trouble hearing when the earpiece was right next to a
microphone on high gain.  There was also a roughly quarter second
delay (presumably this is for A/D conversion + encryption) in talking.
This is an annoyingly long delay, roughly equal to an overseas satellite
conversation.

	Lastly, if you send a dtmf down while in secure mode, you
summon the clipper demon, which, we were told, sounds like something
out of the exorcist.  You also drop out of secure mode.  Useful to
know if demoing a clipper box.  :)

	I did not catch the name of the speaker who was doing the
demo.  A post to alt.hope.d would probably find them.

Adam






