Path: msuinfo!agate!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!EU.net!Germany.EU.net!Informatik.Uni-Dortmund.DE!thue!eggenste
From: eggenste@thue.informatik.uni-dortmund.de (Heinz-Bernd Eggenstein (LS2))
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Wanted: Factoring programs for 80x86 PC's
Date: 19 Aug 1994 15:43:13 GMT
Organization: CS Department, Dortmund University, Germany
Lines: 38
Sender: eggenste@thue (Heinz-Bernd Eggenstein (LS2))
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <332juh$enc@fbi-news.informatik.uni-dortmund.de>
NNTP-Posting-Host: thue.informatik.uni-dortmund.de
Keywords: RSA, factoring, PC, ECM. QS


I'm looking for good integer factoring programs that run
on 80x86 based PCs under the operating system MS-DOS (with
or without MS-Windows) and run smoothly even on small to
medium performance machines (like  i486-DX-33 based machines
with (say) 4-8MB of RAM).

I'm especially interested in implementations of the
Elliptic Curve Method (ECM), but of course implementations of
variations of the Quadratic Sieve algorithm are welcome, too.

I'm thinking about the possibility of trying to assemble
a group of PC owners who are willing to donate some idle cycles
to an effort to find factors of unfactored *partition numbers*
in the ongoing "RSA Factoring Challenge" factoring contest.
I think it might be interesting to demonstrate the factoring power of
loose 'networks' of PCs (even those operating under the
restrictions of MS-DOS/Windows). Many other platforms have been
used in this contest, like single workstations, large networks of
workstations (e.g. by the "Buchmann Factoring Factory", Saarbruecken,
Fed. Rep. of Germany) and a single, massively parallel computer
(A. Lenstra at BELLCORE, using a MasPar 16K).

So, if you know of an integer factoring program written for (or easily
ported to) IBM campat. PCs, please let me know some details of the
implementation, like

-name of author(s)
-factoring method(s) implemented
-throughput of underlying multiple precision arithmetic (e.g. in terms of
 multiplications modulo a 100 dec. digit number per second on
 a specific hardware)
-hardware requirements

Thanx in advance for any suggestions,
Heinz-Bernd Eggenstein


