Path: msuinfo!agate!darkstar.UCSC.EDU!news.hal.COM!olivea!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!yeshua.marcam.com!news.kei.com!uhog.mit.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!swiss.ans.net!newsgate.watson.ibm.com!watnews.watson.ibm.com!locutus.rchland.ibm.com!wo0z.rchland.ibm.com!lwloen
From: lwloen@wo0z.rchland.ibm.com (Larry Loen)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: authenticating pictures
Date: 22 Aug 1994 17:36:49 GMT
Organization: IBM Rochester MN
Lines: 35
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <33annh$17mv@locutus.rchland.ibm.com>
References: <336p7s$nq8@mex0.jaist.ac.jp> <170191376AS86.C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu> <339nj5$a08@mex0.jaist.ac.jp>
Reply-To: lwloen@rchland.vnet.ibm.com
NNTP-Posting-Host: wo0z.rchland.ibm.com

A potentially important issue is "rescans", not just picture
editing.

Suppose I write to Major League Baseball and get permission to
electronically send a picture of, say, Ken Griffey around the
world to my electronic customers.  I encode a signature on the lower
edge of the picture as my "authentication" and people never notice
the garbage on the bottom edge of the pix, but I can feed the
bytes to my WondaCryptSignatureFoobar and see if it is mine.

Meanwhile, someone else writes and gets permission to do the
same thing.

Now suppose further that part of all of this was getting
permission from the photographer, for appropriate sums of money,
to use his picture.  We both do so.

Each of us takes probably a different print and feeds it into
our high quality scanners.

There is vritually no chance that we'll have the same signature
of the same picture.  We can, at least, tell which of us got
ripped off when Joe Shmoe, not in our data base of subscribers,
begins posting it to Pirate's Cove Pix BBS.

I don't know how you can do much more than authenticate my
particular image.  What happens after you meddle with it
(and, to display it, I have to give away my decode rules), is
not at all clear.

-- 
   Larry W. Loen        |  Science is often the act of trading
                        |  comforting myths for exciting ideas

   email to:  lwloen@rchland.vnet.ibm.com
