Path: msuinfo!agate!darkstar.UCSC.EDU!news.hal.COM!olivea!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!yeshua.marcam.com!news.kei.com!uhog.mit.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!swiss.ans.net!newsgate.watson.ibm.com!watnews.watson.ibm.com!locutus.rchland.ibm.com!wo0z.rchland.ibm.com!lwloen
From: lwloen@wo0z.rchland.ibm.com (Larry Loen)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Noise Experiments
Date: 22 Aug 1994 17:30:47 GMT
Organization: IBM Rochester MN
Lines: 41
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <33anc7$17mv@locutus.rchland.ibm.com>
References: <199408220456.XAA28923@pentagon.io.com>
Reply-To: lwloen@rchland.vnet.ibm.com
NNTP-Posting-Host: wo0z.rchland.ibm.com

Terry, an interesting article.

Have you looked at all into using TTL type logic for this?

I am a bit over my head, but I remember that one could use
7404 (single bit inverters, if I remember this all correctly)
in a simple feedback configuration with a crystal to form
a clock circuit for instance.  Apple II used this if I recall
rightly.

I have seen other such ideas used.

I wonder if there is some simple way of hooking up TTL;
it might be easier all around, since the circuits would seem
to be fairly standardized.  The standardization may work
against randomness, but if used "just the right way" maybe
someone could exploit it to have simple, reproducable
random results that don't require careful component selection.

Here's a simple idea or two that even I, world's worst
electrical engineer can suggest:

1.  Use the 7404 design without a crystal.  Measure the
displacement _in time_ between clock pulses.  Does it
have a predictable pattern or not?

2.  Feed "floating" inputs that are normally pulled up
to 5v into various circuits.  Sample the results either
in digital or analog format.

3.  Design race conditions that lead to unpredictable
results that are not cyclic (don't clock things that
would normally have to be clocked to make them work).

I suppose none of this works. . .

-- 
   Larry W. Loen        |  Science is often the act of trading
                        |  comforting myths for exciting ideas

   email to:  lwloen@rchland.vnet.ibm.com
