Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!news1.digex.net!access2!wild
From: wild@access.digex.net (Steve Wildstrom)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: How safe is RSA?
Date: 22 Aug 1994 22:11:28 -0400
Organization: Express Access Online Communications, Greenbelt, MD USA
Lines: 37
Message-ID: <wild.777607228@access2>
References: <9408211624.AA000m8@flevel.demon.co.uk>
NNTP-Posting-Host: access2.digex.net

trefor@flevel.demon.co.uk (Trefor Southwell) writes:

>Ive been reading the documention with PGP and a few maths books. I was
>wondering if anyone had some info who if anyone has cracked RSA and if
>so in what time period. Ive heard that a group of banks in England are
>making a card called Mondex which I think is based around the RSA 
>algorithm, it would be nasty if someone had already come up with an
>easy way to crack RSA!

>I think breaking RSA involves factorising the public key into the 2 
>prime key componants. This however is meant to be very difficult.

I'm not a professional and will avoid the argument about the difficulty 
of factorization and try to answer this guy's possibly naive but homnest 
question.

The security of RSA depends on the difficulty of factoring the modulus, 
which would allow you to recover the private key easily. My guess is the 
question was prompted by the reports of the RSA129 solution some weeks 
back: A Hurculean effort on systems around the world succeeded in 
factoring a single 129-digit modulus. The consensus of the experts here 
was that a 512-bit modulus was crackable in a reasonable (much argument 
about how to define that) amount of time on an NSA-grade computer system, but 
that the time required to factor a 1024-bit number made a modulus of that 
length safe for the foreseeable future. 

An underlying problem is that factorization has not been proven to be 
"difficult" in the sense in which mathematicians use the term. Nearly 
everyone who has worked on the problem believes it to be "difficult" but 
this has not been proven. That means that it remains possible, however 
unlikely, that someone has secretly discovered an extremely fast method 
for factoring large numbers. There is no evidence to support this, however.\
-- 
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Steve Wildstrom   "Technology & You" columnist         swild@mgh.com
                   Business Week/Washington bureau  wild@access.digex.net
    "These opinions aren't necessarily mine or anyone else's."
