Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!csulb.edu!csus.edu!netcom.com!straits
From: straits@netcom.com (Stewart C. Strait)
Subject: Re: Where can I post an algorithm?
Message-ID: <straitsCv13DM.J3x@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 261-4700 guest)
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
References: <pparksCv06GD.8zx@netcom.com>
Date: Wed, 24 Aug 1994 07:27:22 GMT
Lines: 47

Paul M. Parks (pparks@netcom.com) wrote:
: I've tried this once before, but I got flamed to a crisp.

: I would like to have a simple crypt program evaluated by posting the source
: and possibly some sample encrypted text.  Is this an appropriate venue for
: that sort of thing?  If not, what newsgroup would be appropriate?  Also, 
: if I post source code am I going to have spooks knocking on my door for
: "exporting" crypto technology (as if MY program could be dangerous)?

In my opinion, this newsgroup or no newsgroup at all are the only
appropriate choices. rec.puzzles sounds plausible, but I've never
found "here's my algorithm and a sample, break it" postings there.

If you post here, you should expect to be flamed. The important
thing is to make sure you don't deserve it. 
If you write an interesting algorithm,
and it's simple enough for people to have ideas on how to break
there will be interest. You will still be flamed by some, but be brave.

If your algorithm is complicated and looks sort of strong, but
not very novel and rather unwieldy, it
may turn out that no one will have the time to analyze it.
If you should have guessed this, then you will be deservedly flamed.
In my opinion, a subject line with "PUZZLE" or "EVALUATE MY CODE"
in it may help because it gives more than fair warning.

As far as spooks go, if your algorithm is too weak for military
or big-time criminal use, the spooks are ill-advised to bother you.
Besides privacy issues, higher-ranking spooks may punish them
for wasting time. I suggest you 'anglicize' your code syntax.
Posting pseudo-code of this kind might be safer since the
'munition' isn't a finished product in that case.

If you really think your algorithm is strong, you might not want
to give it away, particularly if it's better optimized for use
by people you don't like than for use by people you do. People
with strong algorithms like Phil Zimmerman and (according to rumor)
people with very pointed mathematical observations have gotten
spookish visits.

It's a good guess that giving good instructional material
on how to use your code for specifically military
purposes might upset people. If you went this far I'd be on the
side of the spooks. I doubt very much that you had this in mind.
-- 
Stewart C. Strait
straits@netcom.com
