Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!MathWorks.Com!blanket.mitre.org!linus.mitre.org!gauss.mitre.org!bs
From: bs@gauss.mitre.org (Robert D. Silverman)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: How safe is RSA?
Date: 25 Aug 1994 13:56:17 GMT
Organization: Research Computer Facility, MITRE Corporation, Bedford, MA
Lines: 98
Message-ID: <33i7u1$rqc@linus.mitre.org>
References: <9408251016.AA000vh@flevel.demon.co.uk>
NNTP-Posting-Host: gauss.mitre.org

In article <9408251016.AA000vh@flevel.demon.co.uk> david@flevel.demon.co.uk (David Southwell) writes:
:In article <33e9m1$cee@agate.berkeley.edu> spp@bob.eecs.berkeley.edu (Steve Pope) writes:
 
stuff deleted....
:Judging by his words it is, I think,fair to say that Bob Silverman appears
:to forget that his words convey not only his intellectual wisdom but also
:give a clear exposition of his attitude to others. 
:
:Judging by his style it appears that he only wants people to value him
:for his intellectual qualities. 
:If he is unwilling or unable to apply his critical intellect to refining his
:ability to communicate his intellectual wisdom, without giving offense by
:his style, then so be it. Personally I feel very it is a shame because whilst
 
Personally I feel it is a shame that people are offended when they are
told that their *ideas* are wrong or nonsense. Too many people seem to
take criticism of their ideas and/or knowledge as a *personal* attack.

One sign of maturity is learning to take criticism without offense.
It is my opinion that too many people automatically feel offended
simply because their ideas or words are labelled as nonsense. Their
complaint "you are being offensive" really means "you are being critical
and I don't like it".

And then, like hypocrites, then then turn around and attack me personally,
making veiled insults about my personality.
 
:I think I understand what he is saying mathematically I am sure I do 
:understand, his attitude to others and it is, frankly, not very appealing
 
My attitude towards others is that I demand *excellence*. If you want
to study or get involved with an academic subject, then you should make
an effort to excel. I personally believe that "recreational cryptography"
is worthless. If you want to participate here then take the time to
learn the rudiments or don't bother.

:I am new to this group and I welcome minds like yours Bob but it is also 
:clear from this thread that a few tutorials
:from a professor in human communication skills might not go amiss. 
 
This is beginning to sound like the old cry of "I don't teach mathematics,
I teach people". 

I am here to discuss the mathematics of cryptography and not to nuture
or sooth feelings.

It seems to me that I communicate quite clearly. I have rarely heard
people complain that they don't understand me. What more is required here?

 
:OK enough of that-- now returning to the main theme. 
:
:The second thread, which seems to have been less well explored,  invites the
:question "for what purpose".
:
:I mean is RSA safe enough to be used as a basis for a world wide banking
:transaction scheme? Is it safe enough for the workings of the
:world monetary system to depend upon for all its every day financial
:transactions? 
 
I am getting tired of this. The message just doesn't seem to get through.

RSA can be made as safe AS YOU WANT. Period. The amount of safety depends
on the useful lifetime of the information. 

However, let me add that many people do not seem to understand what RSA
is used for. RSA encryption is sufficiently time-consuming that the best
know chips/methods can not push RSA-encoded data in real-time at more
than about 10 kilobits/sec.  It is generally NOT used for commercial
encryption in transaction processing systems. Instead, it is used for
digital signatures, key exchange/dissemination protocols, email etc.
It is not INTENDED to be involved in transmission of large amounts
of data.

:Is RSA encryption safe enough for a head of state to rely upon to ensure
:that only he could authorise a nuclear missile strike?

Once again, it is as safe as you want it to be. RSA, with a 4096 bit key
(or larger if you want) would certainly be safe enough for such a purpose.

:How likely is it that competing intelligence agencies are able to crack
:one another's encrypted messages?
 
About 0. Agencies generally don't try to crack keys. It is much easier
to bribe/blackmail a foreign national into giving the key or stealing
it etc.

:level of scientific response to the question "how safe is RSA" to enable
:the replies to be fed into discussion of the  social, philosophical and
:practical issues which arise from the existence of RSA.
 
Enlighten us. Define these issues.

-- 
Bob Silverman
These are my opinions and not MITRE's.
Mitre Corporation, Bedford, MA 01730
"You can lead a horse's ass to knowledge, but you can't make him think"
