Path: msuinfo!harbinger.cc.monash.edu.au!yarrina.connect.com.au!warrane.connect.com.au!spectrum.apana.org.au!gco.apana.org.au!not-for-mail
From: benh@gco.apana.org.au (Ben Humphreys)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: PKZip Encryption
Date: 27 Aug 1994 12:44:08 +1000
Organization: Grove Creek Observatory
Lines: 54
Message-ID: <33m99o$397@gco.apana.org.au>
References: <33kdni$on@gco.apana.org.au>
NNTP-Posting-Host: localhost
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL8]

Ben Humphreys (benh@gco.apana.org.au) wrote: 
: Hi! 
:  Does anyone know what type of encryption PKZIP uses? You know how you 
: can encrypt your zip file with a password. Also does anyone know how to 
: crack it? Are there any programs written to do this automatically, you 
: know like the ones for MS Word or for Word Perfect! 
: Thanks. 

: Regards,
: Ben Humphreys <benh@gco.apana.org.au>

I have recieved many requests for the programs to crack Word Perfect and
Microsoft Word. So here it is! The program for Microsoft Word is called
WORDUNP.ZIP you should be able to find it with archie.
  As for Word Perfect, well let me quote an extract from the
Cryptography FAQ:
 
: 8.1. How do I recover from lost passwords in WordPerfect?
:
:  WordPerfect encryption has been shown to be very easy to break.
:  The method uses XOR with two repeating key streams: a typed password
:  and a byte-wide counter initialized to 1+<the password length>. Full
:  descriptions are given in Bennett [BEN87] and Bergen and Caelli
:  [BER91].
:
:  Chris Galas writes: ``Someone awhile back was looking for a way to
:  decrypt WordPerfect document files and I think I have a solution. 
:  There is a software company named: Accessdata (87 East 600 South,
:  Orem, UT 84058), 1-800-658-5199 that has a software package that will
:  decrypt any WordPerfect, Lotus 1-2-3, Quatro-Pro, MS Excel and Paradox
:  files. The cost of the package is $185. Steep prices, but if you
:  think your pw key is less than 10 characters, (or 10 char) give them a
:  call and ask for the free demo disk. The demo disk will decrypt files
:  that have a 10 char or less pw key.'' Bruce Schneier says the phone
:  number for AccessData is 801-224-6970.
 
Also I have found a program that will crack ZIP file encryption (sort of!).
It is called ZIPCRK20.ZIP but the only problem is that it is SEVERELY
crippled. :-( That is it only lets you crack files with passwords begining
with 'Z'. It quite simply uses a brute force attack, but it is suprizingly
fast!
So my search is still on for such a program, so if anyone knows
of anything better PLEASE tell me.
 
By the way, I think there is an important lesson to be learned here! It is
clear that many encryption programs are inadequate. Microsoft Word was
nothing, as is Word Perfect (I think) and PKZIP's encryption is hardly
uncrackable. So you would be STUPID to use anything less than DES or
PGP which uses RSA and IDEA. Let's hope the ease at which one can crack
Microsoft Word will shock you as it did me!
 
Regards,
Ben Humphreys <benh@gco.apana.org.au>

