Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!news.amherst.edu!news.mtholyoke.edu!uhog.mit.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!newsxfer.itd.umich.edu!zip.eecs.umich.edu!yeshua.marcam.com!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!csusac!csus.edu!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: How safe is RSA?
Message-ID: <strnlghtCvB6EM.Bpn@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <9408281626.AA00152@flevel.demon.co.uk>
Date: Mon, 29 Aug 1994 18:08:46 GMT
Lines: 44

In article <9408281626.AA00152@flevel.demon.co.uk>,
David Southwell <david@flevel.demon.co.uk> wrote:
>Let us say someone was asked to prepare an analysis in response to the
>questions "How safe is RSA"
>
>
>Under what sub headings do you think the analysis  should be made?

An interesting point. I note with some amusement that many who post
"expert-seeming" replies tend to post analytically devoid statements of the
form of an "is" in which the analysis, much less the conclusions, are
essentially left to the reader.

They seem, at best, to be answers to the question "how would I go about
analyzing how safe RSA is?", rather than the question that was asked.

As near as I can make out, such replies come from several possible sources:

1. Laziness;
2. Ignorance;
3. Arrogance;
4. That the question, as posed, is unanswerable.

If the correct answer is (4), writers should say so rather than posting a
farrago of mathematics, and be willing to take the risk that someone else
might actually answer the question. Even more helpful would be a response
(if the writer believes (4) is the correct answer), of the form 'tell me
what your assumptions are about computer technology and the degree of
parallel processing and I can give you a better answer'.

Most helpful of all are answers in which the expert makes the assumptions,
states what they are, and then gives a result in terms consistent with the
question rather than consistent with THEIR internal mode of thinking. Thus:
'if a, and b, and c, then it will take 3x10**8 years to crack the message,
but note that there is reason to believe that the NSA (for example) is
not-a though most commercial adversaries would be'.

David


-- 
People who post newsgroup flames
Must have flammable gas for brains.
Burma Shave.
