Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!news.amherst.edu!news.mtholyoke.edu!uhog.mit.edu!news.kei.com!yeshua.marcam.com!charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu!olivea!news.hal.COM!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: How safe is RSA?
Message-ID: <strnlghtCvB5o6.A0C@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <9408251016.AA000vh@flevel.demon.co.uk> <33i7u1$rqc@linus.mitre.org> <33jpti$5be@cxsoft.convex.com> <Cv9Atr.2qF@cix.compulink.co.uk>
Date: Mon, 29 Aug 1994 17:52:54 GMT
Lines: 162

In article <Cv9Atr.2qF@cix.compulink.co.uk>,
Andrew Haley <aph@cix.compulink.co.uk> wrote:
>In article <33jpti$5be@cxsoft.convex.com> tighe@convex.com writes:
>>
>>Most people that go about learning anything new start from zero; I do not
>>think they should remain silent until they have reached a level of
>>excellence. I think it is good that people ask stupid questions. At least
>>they are showing an interest in trying to learn more.
>
>There are two related problems here:
>
>1.  Some people read news in order to avoid going to the library or
>doing any actual study on the subject.  We've seen a lot of that
>recently.

This is a view that may once, MAYBE, have applied when the net was the
province of students, professors, and experts. That time has been over for
quite some time. The model for most of the newsgroups on the net that are
two-way unmoderated is that of a general discussion group. Such models are
common elsewhere as well, as for example on Compuserve, Delphi, America
Online, etc. The notion that YOU have the right to tell another to go do his
homework isn't appropriate. Read the various "netiquette" statements for
information about the extent to which users are expected to be "up to
speed". In most cases what is suggested is that they read silently for a few
weeks before jumping in.

To the extent that there are FAQs, a POLITE pointer to them when they answer
a question is appropriate. To the extent something has been discussed
extensively and fairly recently on a newsgroup a POLITE pointer to that is
appropriate. It is never appropriate to tell a user to "go study". That
comes across as arrogance, and is inappropriate. If you want an expert
community go either to the literature yourself, or to a moderated newsgroup
with published standards or to a mailing list with appropriate entry
requirments. And remember, there is no compulsion to answer any message not
pointed to you by name. If you don't like newbies, remain silent when they
post.

It may be that you are mistakenly generalizing from personal experience
inapplicable to the current situation. Because YOU might have been required
to study and reach a certain level of expertise in order to participate in
expert discussions or the expert community (or even for reasons of your own
self-esteem) does not mean this is an appropriate standard for a lay person
who seeks information. Such people are not seeking acceptance as experts,
and it is thus quite wrong to hold them to such standards.

>
>2.  People who don't know what they are talking about post opinions and
>challenge those who do know to shoot them down.  When they get shot
>down, they whine about how rudely they've been treated, and have the
>nerve to tell us how we should conduct our discussions.

This is, in general, inaccurate. Though there may have been occasional cases
of this, mostly people think they do know what they are talking about though
that belief may sometimes be honestly in error. "Shooting down" is not
appropriate. It comes across as a sign of arrogance to use such a phrase, as
is "have the nerve to tell us..." Both phrases also come across, at least to
this reader, as juvenile.

The pathological cases of those who deliberately and knowingly post nonsense
are very rare and are most easily dealt with via kill files. In fact, anyone
who annoys you is best dealt with via kill files rather than what comes
across as arrogant pronouncements.

>I welcome newbies here, but I urge them to spend a little time studying
>the rudiments.

Your phrasing elsewhere in this message is highly dissonant with the above
sentiment. "I welcome newbies" comes across as posturing on your part rather
than a sincerely held belief. I have noticed it is often true that any
phrase that precedes the word "but" is a lie. 

(By the way, I don't claim to be immune from that kind of error myself, nor
to postings which may come across as arrogant. Man is fallible but
perfectible.)

>
>Re something substantive about the strength of RSA:  A number of
>experts met in 1991 to consider questions like this. (EISS Workshop,
>Oberwolfbach 1991.)  Their conclusion was:
>
>"For most applications a modulus size of 1024 bit for RSA should
>achieve a sufficient level of security for "tactical" secrets for the
>next ten years.  This is for long term secrecy purposes, for short term
>authenticity purposes 512 bit might suffice this century.

The above seems to show clearly that the "experts" did an incomplete
analysis. Although their statement about 1024 bit keys may, in fact be
accurate, given the results of the RSA-129 exercise and what is known about
fast, highly parallel machines affordable by the NSA and analogous
organizations elsewhere, the statement about 512 bits seems to me to be
highly suspect. To their credit they used the word "might", but to use it as
a weasel word to get out of giving bad advice isn't what the original
questioner was after, nor I think was what was in the minds of the original
writers.

Given that, I would not be as confident as you seem to be that you have the
best current knowledge about this (if we take your citation as evidence of
expertise).

>
>Please note:  Although the participants in this workshop feel best 
>qualified in their respective areas, this statement (with respect to
>long lasting security) should be taken with caution."

Again, the above, though to the credit of the workshop, makes their prior
statement less than fully useful to the original questioner here.

>That's about as strong a consensus on the security of RSA as you're
>ever likely to see.  I'm sorry if the newbies want more, but that's 
>all the information they'll get without studying the algorithms
>themselves.

This both comes across as arrogant and appears false. Other readers have
been rather more generous in their responses to this kind of question in the
past that you are apparently willing or able to be. The reader is looking
for simple relations, that say something like "Given computers of the
following character......." or "given best current known commercially
available highly parallel computers with "n" cpus...." or "given what we
think the NSA can likely buy for $x million...", and "assuming no
breakthroughs in factoring...." "it will take 'x' <days, months, years> to
crack a <512, 1024> bit RSA key". Similarly for brute force search for IDEA
or DES or TDES keys.

Statements like Silverman's o(....) are useless except to those with a
rather higher level of expertise than the general reader here. In fact,
readers who understand statements about o(...) or P=NP are fairly unlikely
to be asking questions phrased as "how secure is RSA?" or its relatives. But
unless or until this becomes a moderated newsgroup with standards of
expertise for participation, they have just as much a legitimate place here
as the experts, in my view.

By the way, if you have a desire for a newsgroup "for the experts" that is
certainly legitimate, but under the circumstances it must be moderated and
have clearly stated participation requirements. Given the proposed charter
of sci.crypt.research, it's not clear that even that group will require
expertise in order to participate. That is--questions of the form "What is
known in the research community about...." from laymen seem legitimate, and
such questions need a layman-understandable response. An experts-only
newsgroup has yet to be proposed.

In fact, the record shows that the proposed creation of sci.crypt.research
was more to separate politics from the technical than it was to separate the
lay person from the expert.

Finally, I must point out that some of the world's greatest scientists,
including many Nobel Laureates, have spent a lot of their time writing
clearly and simply to give lay people an understanding of some of the
deepest and most abstruse concepts. Speaking generally, to treat lay people
cavalierly here seems to me to be both arrogant and inappropriate.

>
>There is no royal road to mathematics.

The notion that this newsgroup is one in which only the formal expressions
of mathematics are admissible comes across not only as arrogant, but also as
inconsistent with reality.

David
-- 
People who post newsgroup flames
Must have flammable gas for brains.
Burma Shave.
