+Release Notes for Cyphernomicon, 0.666, 1994-09-10

  1.For many months I have been working on a "FAQ" for the Cypherpunks
    list. I foolishly agreed to do one after several prior efforts had
    gone nowhere...now I can see why. I got seriously rolling on it in
    the late winter (of 1994), and then began to write new sections,
    acquire good quotes (mostly from Cypherpunks list postings, but also
    from Usenet), and flesh out the topics. This past summer I've spent
    far too much time on it...far, far too much time. (Though I've
    continued to post to the Cypherpunks list, I've spent several times
    as much time working on this document as I have composing posts.)
    
    Regardless of some deficiencies--especially some confusing
    collections of various points--I simply have to put it up for ftp
    access and then move on to the rest of my life. I'll certainly issue
    revised versions, and so on, but not for a while. Too many other
    things are waiting for me to "revise and extend" right now. I hope
    you folks understand.
    1.1.    The proximate deadline for this was set by the upcoming
       "Second Anniversary" Cypherpunks meeting, on Saturday, September
       10th. 1994.
  2.This FAQ is no longer just a FAQ, but is instead a mini-encyclopedia
    of various topics. (In fact, about two thirds of the way through
    working on it, I realized how much easier it would have been to
    simply eschew all organizational efforts and simply have an
    alphabetical ordering of entries on a few hundred topics, like an
    encyclopedia. I've stuck with my thematic organization though.
    Fortunately, I expect that all readers will read this doc with
    editors and word processors, or Web browsers (perhaps), so the normal
    searching and grepping tools can be used to find topics of interest.
    2.1.    Being more than just a FAQ, I have retitled it "The
       Cyphernomicon," a whimsical reference to the mythical
       "Necronomicon."
    2.2.    I also didn't want to call it "The Cypherpunks FAQ," as
       befitting our decentralized, non-hierarchical anarchy. Also, there
       have been several previous FAQs of one sort or another (ones from
       Matthew Ghio and Eric Raymond, as I recall) and just a few days
       ago, the "Cypherpunks Electronic Book" (CEB) of Gary Jeffers. To
       each their own. My FAQ will be called "The Cyphernomicon." (I have
       some other reasons for this name, which I can elaborate on if
       there's interest.)
  3.The complete document of the "Cyphernomicon" is available by
    anonymous ftp from ftp.netcom.com in /pub/tcmay.
    3.1.    How to Get It:
      3.1.1.   anonymous ftp to "ftp.netcom.com"
      3.1.2.   username is "anonymous" and password is e-mail address of
          user
      3.1.3.   cd to /pub/tcmay
    3.2.    Should I Get It?
      3.2.1.   Folks might want to wait a few days, unless they really
          want it bad, to see if any serious formatting or permission
          problems exist.
      3.2.2.   Likewise, if you encounter problems, let me know. I'll
          summarize any problems, report them via the List, and of course
          try to resolve them.
    3.3.    If it's compressed...
    3.4.    Where Else Can it be Found?
      3.4.1.   Others are free to move it to ftp sites, etc., as they
          wish, provided it is kept intact (this is spelled out in the
          document).
      3.4.2.   My advice is that people leave it where it is for now,
          rather than proliferating ftp sites.
        3.4.2.1.  let's see what the interest is
        3.4.2.2.  let's keep the point of distribution focussed, to aid
             in coherency
         3.4.2.2.1.  after all, this is not "emacs" or some other item
                that needs worldwide distribution...at most only a few
                dozen or perhaps more will want this document, is my
                guess
  4."What form is it in, and why?"
    4.1.    It is currently one large, linear file. This will be best for
       searching and grepping for keywords, but may be a strain for some
       text editors and word processors.
      4.1.1.   When I get time (after a break from this unending chore of
          finishing it), I may split the file into the 20 or so chapters
          that comprise it. Maybe not, though, as my ftp storage quota is
          limited.
      4.1.2.   At the least I will surely publish the much shorter "MFAQ"
          (Most Frequently Asked Questions) as a separate document.
    4.2.    It is not a Web file for several reasons:
      4.2.1.   I have poor access to the World Wide Web, only via "lynx,"
          and hence spend little time (so far) in the Web.
      4.2.2.   Many others I suspect have poor access.
      4.2.3.   Linear text is still fine for some things...can be read on
          all platforms, can be printed out, and can be searched with
          standard grep and similar tools
      4.2.4.   Writing tools are lacking, at least compared to what I
          have here on the   Macintosh. I use an outline processor, MORE,
          and am very happy with it. (I also have FrameMaker, which can
          handle conversions to html documents, I hear, but  I haven't
          explored this.)
        4.2.4.1.  (Note: Please don't send me tips on how if I only
             converted to the system you use, e.g., Linux and Mosaic,
             that my problems would be solved. There are a thousand ways
             to do everything these days, and all choices involve
             compromises.)
      4.2.5.   Finally, I'm not convinced that Web documents are such a
          great advance. From my perusing of the Web, via "lynx," I've
          been struck with the confusion, the lack of editing, the
          agglomeration of whatever docs a Web author had available. Too
          many sites are just not interesting.
  5."Why the mix of styles?"
    5.1.    There are three main types of styles here:
      5.1.1.   Standard prose sections, explaining some point or listing
          things. Mini-essays, like most posts to Cypherpunks.
      5.1.2.   Short, outline-style comments
        5.1.2.1.  that I didn't have time or willpower to expand into
             prose format
        5.1.2.2.  that work best in outline format anyway
        5.1.2.3.  like this
      5.1.3.   Quotes from others
        5.1.3.1.  Cypherpunks are a bright group. A lot of clever things
             have been said in the 600 days x 40 posts/day = 24,000
             posts, and I am trying to use what I can.
        5.1.3.2.  Sadly, only a tiny fraction can be used
         5.1.3.2.1.  because I simply cannot _read_  even a fraction of
                these posts over again (though I've only saved several
                thousand of the posts)
         5.1.3.2.2.  and because including too many of these posts would
                simply make the FAQ too long (it's still too long, I
                suppose)
    5.2.    I hope you can handle the changes in tone of voice, in
       styles, and even in formats. It'll just too much time to make it
       all read uniformly.
  6."Why did it take so long to finish?"
    6.1.    The editing and rearranging of chunks has been incredibly
       time-consuming. It seemed that every time I'd delve into a
       section, I'd look up and discover that several hours had passed!
       Multiply this by the number of sections and subsections and the
       problem is apparent.
    6.2.    I clearly bit off more than I could chew, turning a
       straightforward FAQ into a semi-encyclopedic look at all sorts of
       implications and elaborations of cryptography, digital cash,
       reputations, crypto anarchy, and the like. Oh well, it may be more
       useful to some people in this form than just another FAQ would be.
  7."How useful will it be?"
    7.1.    It may not be as useful to "newbies" as I had once hoped,
       though the "MFAQ" (Most Frequently Asked Questions) is suitable
       for newbies. And even newbies often have "deep" questions, about
       some particular aspect of some topic, and are often frustrated by
       the brevity of conventional FAQs.
    7.2.    My advice is for people to use their editors and word
       processors to search or grep for the topics of interest to them.
  8.Corrections and Elaborations
      +"How to handle corrections or clarifications?"
         -While I have done my best to ensure accuracy, errors will no
          doubt exist. And as anyone can see from reading the Cypherpunks
          list, nearly *any* statement made about any subject can produce
          a flurry of rebuttals, caveats, expansions, and whatnot. Some
          subjects, such as the nature of money, the role of Cypherpunks,
          and the role of reputations, produce dozens of differing
          opinions every time they come up!
         -So, it is not likely that my points here will be any different.
          Fortunately, the sheer number of points here means that not
          every one of them will be disagreed with. But the math is
          pretty clear: if every reader finds even one thing to disagree
          with and then posts his rebuttal or elaboration....disaster!
          (Especially if some people can't trim quotes properly and end
          up including a big chunk of text.)
         +Recommendations
            -Send corrections of _fact_ to me
            -If you disagree with my opinion, and you think you can
             change my mind, or cause me to include your opinion as an
             elaboration or as a dissenting view, then send it. If your
             point requires long debate or is a deep disagreement, then I
             doubt I have the time or energy to debate. If you want your
             views heard, write your own FAQ!
            -Ultimately, send what you want. But I of course will
             evaluate comments and apply a reputation-based filter to the
             traffic. Those who send me concise, well-reasoned
             corrections or clarifications are likelier to be listened to
             than those who barrage me with minor clarifications and
             elaborations.
            -In short, this is not a group project. The "stone soup FAQ"
             is not what this is.
         +More information
            -Please don't send me e-mail asking for more information on a
             particular topic--I just can't handle custom research. This
             FAQ is long enough, and the Glossary at the end contains
             additional information, so that I cannot expand upon these
             topics (unless there is a general debate on the list). In
             other words, don't assume this FAQ is an entry point into a
             larger data base I will generate. I hate to sound so blunt,
             but I've seen the requests that come in every time I write a
             fairly long article.
         +Tips on feedback
            -Comments about writing style, of the form "I would have
             written it _this_ way," are especially unwelcome.
      +Credit issues
         -inevitable that omissions or collisions will occur
         -ideas have many fathers
         -some ideas have been "in the air" for many years
         +slogans are especially problematic
            -"They can have my...."...I credit Barlow with this, but I've
             heard others use it independently (I think; at least I used
             it before hearing Barlow used it)
            -"If crypto is outlawed, only outlaws will have crypto"
            -"Big Brother Inside"
         -if something really bothers you, send me a note
  9.Closing Comments
    9.1.    This is not the FAQ everybody may have wanted. Too bad. This
       is not the length desired by all. Too bad. This is not the form
       everyone might want. Too bad. And so on. I wrote the document I
       felt needed to be written, not the doc everyone might agree on
       (doubtful that this could happen). That's the way of the world.
    9.2.    I'm not trying to be bad-tempered here. Everybody wants
       something different. Every post on the Cypherpunks list typically
       produces a dissenting view. This is the modern age of 600 or more
       people all hearing the same words, and any of them who disagree or
       wish to quibble are able to do so. I'm surprised things are not
       even more contentious than they are!
    9.3.    So, I hope some of you enjoy this and find it useful. If not,
       I'll refund your money. Cheers!
