Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!gatech!concert!corpgate!news.utdallas.edu!feenix.metronet.com!gardner
From: gardner@metronet.com (Stephen M. Gardner)
Subject: Re: Please explain the problem with clipper
References: <Apr21.233200.70723@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU> <19931213230110.scott.klement@sklement.AtlantaGA.NCR.COM> <3949@dwrsun5.dwrsun4.UUCP>
Organization: Texas Metronet Communications Services, Dallas TX
Date: Sat, 1 Jan 1994 19:17:23 GMT
Message-ID: <CIytKz.CsJ@metronet.com>
Lines: 61
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:24328 alt.privacy.clipper:1711 sci.crypt:22409

In article <3949@dwrsun5.dwrsun4.UUCP> perl@dwrsun4.UUCP (Robert Perlberg) writes:
>Please excuse my naivete, but I have not been following this issue that
>closely.  What exactly is the gov't doing that has everyone so upset?
>Are they completely outlawing the use of any crypto technology other
>than clipper?  If not, what's the big deal about clipper?  Anyone who
>wants to use a more secure chip is free to do so, so why not just let
>the gov't produce the chips and let the product gather dust on the
>shelves?
	The problem is that few believe that the government won't
	outlaw other forms of encryption, despite what it says.
	The reason that folks don't trust the government on this
	issue is not just that governments are inherently untrustworthy
	by the way.  The stated goal of the clipper chip (to allow
	goverment interception of "illegal" communications) is
	inconsistent with the existence of alternative forms of encryption.
	Clearly a terrorist or a drug smuggler would be stupid to use
	a chip with a government back-door.  That leads many citizens
	to conclude that either:

		1. the government is lying about whether it will make
		   alternative encryption illegal.

			OR

		2. the real target is not drug smugglers but instead
		   citizens who have political beliefs that the government
		   finds inconvenient.

	Given the sort of behavior we have seen recently from our 
	government I don't feel particularly sanguine about their 
	intentions.  Our government has become increasingly distant
	from its citizens and more than a decade of the war on some
	drugs has fostered an attitude on the part of various
	law enforcement agencies that all are guilty unless proven
	otherwise.  We have managed to build up an enormous bureacracy
	of law enforcement that has come to depend on forfeiture for
	the money to run.  There are a number of documented cases where
	citizens have been deprived of money or property without any
	proof of criminal intent on their part.  The laws that were
	originally designed for use against drug smugglers have become
	a threat to honest Americans who use case in large sums.  The 
	ever-increasing demand for more money on the part of bureacracies
	has meant that the feeding frenzy has gone beyond drug dealers
	to reach the honest citizen. In spite of this enormous and bloated 
	law-enforcement bureaucracy, the streets are less safe then
	ever.  The jails and prisons across the nation are full
	and they are letting out violent criminals to make room for
	more drug "offenders".  The climate is one of fear and need
	for "tougher" responses on crime.  We are in great danger of
	losing control of our own government and becoming victims of
	our own paranoia.  Tax by forfeiture has become an addiction
	to some agencies both local and federal.  This is a very ominous
	sign and should make us all afraid. Not since the McCarthy era has 
	the threat to our constitutional freedoms been this severe.  A good
	way of communicating with one's fellow citizens unbeknownst
	to the goverment is absolutely essential in this environment
	of eroding constitutional freedoms.  It may be our last hope
	in organizing to prevent a police state.  


				smg
