Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!news.moneng.mei.com!nic.hookup.net!swrinde!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!tis.com!mjr
From: mjr@tis.com (Marcus J. Ranum)
Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Please explain the problem with clipper
Date: 1 Jan 1994 17:03:59 GMT
Organization: Trusted Information Systems, Inc.
Lines: 63
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <2g4adv$1s7@sol.tis.com>
References: <Apr21.233200.70723@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU> <19931213230110.scott.klement@sklement.AtlantaGA.NCR.COM> <3949@dwrsun5.dwrsun4.UUCP>
NNTP-Posting-Host: otter.tis.com
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:24326 alt.privacy.clipper:1710 sci.crypt:22405

>Please excuse my naivete, but I have not been following this issue that
>closely.  What exactly is the gov't doing that has everyone so upset?

	There are lots of things about clipper that upset various
people.

	What upsets me is that it represents a potentially huge waste
of taxpayers' money. Some of that money has already been wasted in the
form of the chip's design which has taken years. The future potential
waste of money is also very high, since making the chips and keying
them and managing the escrowed keys is going to be a complex and
expensive process. Add to that the cost of the escrow agencies, who
will also be taxpayer-funded, and the bill keeps growing. Government
run escrow agencies are *NOT* going to be inexpensive -- presumably
we'll be paying for a couple of GS-somethings to sit there in a little
room with expensive crypto-doodads waiting for the STU to ring. There
will doubtless be further costs if the field organizations that want
to generate clipper-taps need decryption units to process the escrowed
keys, etc, etc, etc. In order to "incentivize" AT&T to back clipper,
promises for the purchase of huge number of clipperphones (at the
taxpayer's expense) were made. Note too that a consumer will pay more
for a clipperphone because the chips are more expensive than COTS
DSPs -- unless the clipper chips themselves are made to appear cheaper
by what amounts to a government subsidy. Again, the taxpayer pays
and pays and pays.

	You are paying now, and will continue to pay, for all this.

	Basically, clipper represents a government-run foray into the
telecommunications market, entirely at the taxpayer's expense. Never
mind trusting them -- I'm not convinced they can do it without wasting
a huge amount of my money, in a time when we're laying off teachers
and cutting staff left and right. Government should not compete with
the private sector, and should not fund that competition behind covert
budgets, unless there's some review of the cost effectiveness of the
proposal.

	The cost effectiveness of clipper has gotten little debate,
unfortunately. Given the costs I've listed above, and add a little
Goverment Inefficiency and Waste to the process and we're talking
a fairly hefty amount of money, JUST TO CATCH CRIMINALS WHO ARE
DUMB ENOUGH TO USE CLIPPERPHONES WHEN THERE IS A WIRETAP ORDER ON THEM.
Even if you assume the former category is large -- let's pretend
that *all* criminal activity in the US is done over clipperphones --
you're only helping a very little bit, because there are only a few
thousand legally court-ordered wiretaps a year. So we spend millions
of dollars for a very small target. If you assume criminals are smart
enough to use other cryptography (and after the loud debate, they
will be) then you may actually score a bad guy or two a year, using
clipper. This is typical War On Drugs math: spend 50 million to take
someone off the street for a year. The money might be more effectively
used in bolstering the police force or developing other technologies,
or, possibly, aimed at social programs to try to solve the problem.

	There are a lot of folks who argue that clipper is evil and
unamerican and they may be right. But that's not a concern of any of
the governments we've elected recently. That it's an expensive and
non-cost-effective program is also business as usual. However, if the
cost effectiveness and basic costs of clipper are discussed and
exposed to the harsh light of reality, maybe it's not too late to
save the taxpayers (that's you and me) a pile of money.

>Anyone who
>wants to use a more secure chip is free to do so, so why not just let
>the gov't produce the chips and let the product gather dust on the
>shelves?

	Because "the government" is us, and when it wastes money to
make something that gathers dust on the shelves, it's wasting money
it took from us -- money that we hoped it would use with wisdom,
and at least a little responsibility.

mjr.
