Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: Please explain the problem with clipper
Message-ID: <strnlghtCIyyM5.M8p@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <Apr21.233200.70723@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU> <19931213230110.scott.klement@sklement.AtlantaGA.NCR.COM> <3949@dwrsun5.dwrsun4.UUCP> <2g4adv$1s7@sol.tis.com>
Distribution: inet
Date: Sat, 1 Jan 1994 21:06:05 GMT
Lines: 197
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:24331 alt.privacy.clipper:1712 sci.crypt:22410

In article <2g4adv$1s7@sol.tis.com>, Marcus J. Ranum <mjr@tis.com> wrote:
>>Please excuse my naivete, but I have not been following this issue that
>>closely.  What exactly is the gov't doing that has everyone so upset?

My comments on Ranum's response assume the following:

1. That we are in strong non-governmental economic competition with foreign
entites well-endowed with cryptanalysis resources.

2. That they seek to crack our commercial traffic in aid of economic
advantage.

3. That the government has made a policy decision that our smartest or at
least most experienced communications security people, namely the NSA, (at
least in an "advisory" capacity should develop more secure algorithms and
systems for widespread commercial use than the present DES or alternatives
available in the private sector, in order to protect our private sector
economic activities against 1 and 2 above.

>	There are lots of things about clipper that upset various
>people.
>
>	What upsets me is that it represents a potentially huge waste
>of taxpayers' money. Some of that money has already been wasted in the
>form of the chip's design which has taken years. The future potential
>waste of money is also very high, since making the chips and keying
>them and managing the escrowed keys is going to be a complex and
>expensive process. Add to that the cost of the escrow agencies, who
>will also be taxpayer-funded, and the bill keeps growing. Government
>run escrow agencies are *NOT* going to be inexpensive -- presumably
>we'll be paying for a couple of GS-somethings to sit there in a little
>room with expensive crypto-doodads waiting for the STU to ring. There
>will doubtless be further costs if the field organizations that want
>to generate clipper-taps need decryption units to process the escrowed
>keys, etc, etc, etc. In order to "incentivize" AT&T to back clipper,
>promises for the purchase of huge number of clipperphones (at the
>taxpayer's expense) were made. Note too that a consumer will pay more
>for a clipperphone because the chips are more expensive than COTS
>DSPs -- unless the clipper chips themselves are made to appear cheaper
>by what amounts to a government subsidy. Again, the taxpayer pays
>and pays and pays.

The above objections mistakenly attribute many of the costs of clipper to
the escrow system. If one can separate the escrow-related costs out, then
one can assess whether these incremental costs justify what they are
intended to pay for. That is, the costs avoided if criminals, spies,
terrorists, etc. could use a non-escrowed clipper if that were what the
government offered instead.

Note that the above is neutral with respect to non-clipper systems--that is,
if the government offered non-escrowed Clipper, the bad guys could still use
non-Clipper. Thus the government must know that their costs from dealing
with non-escrowed non-Clipper traffic are substantially less than the costs
from dealing with a hypothetical non-escrowed Clipper. Putting this more
simply, though perhaps a bit less accurately, if the government can break
DES, TDES, IDEA, RSA now with $x of resource expenditure, they must believe
to break non-escrowed Clipper would cost a lot more--perhaps non-escrowed
clipper has been designed so well it isn't practically breakable right now.

If I were the government, and if I knew I was going to use escrow to protect
the government's security interests, I'd use the strongest basic algorithm I
could develop, and keep it secret. That would protect my private sector
while allowing "legitimate" government security interests to be taken
account of.

>
>	You are paying now, and will continue to pay, for all this.
>
>	Basically, clipper represents a government-run foray into the
>telecommunications market, entirely at the taxpayer's expense. Never
>mind trusting them -- I'm not convinced they can do it without wasting
>a huge amount of my money, in a time when we're laying off teachers
>and cutting staff left and right. Government should not compete with
>the private sector, and should not fund that competition behind covert
>budgets, unless there's some review of the cost effectiveness of the
>proposal.

Given my assumptions, it is entirely legitimate for the government, which
has the most experienced crypto people, to serve the private sector in this
way. In fact, a fundamental responsibility of government is to promote U.S.
international trade, and there are large budgets for so doing. Under my
assumptions, this is what they are doing here. Further, the government's
role in aiding the private sector in the cryptographic area has been well
established for years and is unexceptionable. Note that under my assumptions
the primary purpose of clipper has nothing to do with "covert budgets"--only
the escrow system does, and that's designed to reduce such budgets (if the
above calculational test on security cost/benefits has been met by the
government). Knowing the professionalism of many involved, I assume it has
been met, and I further assume that it cannot be made public since the
costs of cryptoanalytic activities and the successes, if any, against RSA,
IDEA, TDES, etc. must remain highly classified.

>
>	The cost effectiveness of clipper has gotten little debate,
>unfortunately. Given the costs I've listed above, and add a little
>Goverment Inefficiency and Waste to the process and we're talking
>a fairly hefty amount of money, JUST TO CATCH CRIMINALS WHO ARE
>DUMB ENOUGH TO USE CLIPPERPHONES WHEN THERE IS A WIRETAP ORDER ON THEM.

I think the above to be hand-waving to the extent that it adduces the vague
and unquantifiable pejorative "Government inefficiency and waste". To the
extent my assumptions are valid, far more than a few criminals are involved.
What did one World Trade Center bombing cost us? How many contracts has U.S.
business lost to foreign industrial espionage?

>Even if you assume the former category is large -- let's pretend
>that *all* criminal activity in the US is done over clipperphones --
>you're only helping a very little bit, because there are only a few
>thousand legally court-ordered wiretaps a year. So we spend millions
>of dollars for a very small target. If you assume criminals are smart
>enough to use other cryptography (and after the loud debate, they
>will be) then you may actually score a bad guy or two a year, using
>clipper. This is typical War On Drugs math: spend 50 million to take
>someone off the street for a year. The money might be more effectively
>used in bolstering the police force or developing other technologies,
>or, possibly, aimed at social programs to try to solve the problem.
>

This is special pleading (incomplete argumentation omitting material facts).
To repeat--Clipper without escrow is justified for economic security. But if
clipper is used because of its cryptographic security for that purpose, then
the algorithm must be kept secret and an unavoidable escrow component must
be added to handle criminal, terrorist, and legal non-court-ordered SIGINT
(read "foreign intelligence") functions that would otherwise be thwarted by
the availablilty of what I suppose to be one of NSA's most secure algorithm
designs, assuming the losses from such bad guys are potentially greater than
the costs of escrow.

>	There are a lot of folks who argue that clipper is evil and
>unamerican and they may be right. But that's not a concern of any of
>the governments we've elected recently. That it's an expensive and
>non-cost-effective program is also business as usual. However, if the
>cost effectiveness and basic costs of clipper are discussed and
>exposed to the harsh light of reality, maybe it's not too late to
>save the taxpayers (that's you and me) a pile of money.
>

More likely the NSA will be unable to make its most secure algorithms
available for private sector use and we'll incur the losses due to foreign
economic espionage. There is, I believe, no chance the NSA will make Clipper
available without escrow, nor that Congress or the administration would
support it, for the reasons I've mentioned. Thus the objections to escrow
would, if successful, kill Clipper rather than producing a non-escrowed
version. Our foreign adversaries might like this (and maybe even covertly
lobby to kill clipper), but we'd be the losers.

>>Anyone who
>>wants to use a more secure chip is free to do so, so why not just let
>>the gov't produce the chips and let the product gather dust on the
>>shelves?
>
>	Because "the government" is us, and when it wastes money to
>make something that gathers dust on the shelves, it's wasting money
>it took from us -- money that we hoped it would use with wisdom,
>and at least a little responsibility.
>

See above for why the "wasting money" argument is badly flawed. As long as
Clipper is voluntary (to satisfy the civil libertarians), they have no right
to deprive those of us who want a system NSA suggests is state-of-the-art
cryptographically secure, if we are voluntarily willing to take it with
escrow. What's more, if my cost-benefit sketch is accurate, it is they,
rather than the Clipper people, who will be costing the country a lot of
money.

Now let me make what I think to be a legitimate (and perhaps the only
legitimate) counter argument. If the national security benefits don't offset
the escrow costs of Clipper, then we are better off, as a cost/benefit
matter, with non-escrowed clipper with a secret algorithm. If the national
security benefits don't offset the algorithm secrecy disadvantages, then we
are better off with a public Clipper algorithm.

I believe both counter arguments are invalid. An impressionistic proof is
left to the reader, noting some of the arguments I've made earlier in this
message about the potential national security costs (losses) from a
non-escrowed clipper and/or a pubished algorithm, and some of the economic
losses from the private sector's continuing to use weaker cryptosystems.

In keeping with the message I'm responding to, I've tried to confine my
arguments above to the economic and national security costs and benefits,
which are part, I think, of the "scientific" discussion (at least we
economists think so). I have tried to avoid personal characterizations and
personal preferences in the above. I'd hope any responses would be in a
similar vein so that we don't reawaken the exhausting earlier debate which
involved much off-subject (from the point of view of sci.crypt) material.

To the extent that people have non-cryptographic, non-cost-benefit arguments
to make, please adjust the header of such replies to direct them to groups
other than sci.crypt, including perhaps talk.politics.crypto, where they may
have such discussions with like-minded (with respect to topicality, not
positions on that topicality) people. I mean no offense by this request.

David

-- 
David Sternlight         When the mouse laughs at the cat,
                         there is a hole nearby.--Nigerian Proverb
