Path: msuinfo!agate!spool.mu.edu!think.com!news!rlk
From: rlk@merlin.think.com (Robert Krawitz)
Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Please explain the problem with clipper
Date: 2 Jan 94 13:51:46
Organization: Thinking Machines Corporation, Cambridge Mass., USA
Lines: 94
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <RLK.94Jan2135146@merlin.think.com>
References: <Apr21.233200.70723@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU> <2g4adv$1s7@sol.tis.com>
	<strnlghtCIyyM5.M8p@netcom.com> <2g6utu$k2o@access.digex.net>
	<strnlghtCJ0LAq.BK6@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: merlin.think.com
In-reply-to: strnlght@netcom.com's message of Sun, 2 Jan 1994 18:13:38 GMT
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:24357 alt.privacy.clipper:1731 sci.crypt:22437

In article <strnlghtCJ0LAq.BK6@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:

   These are Steve's, not mine. I will comment on why they aren't;
   >
   >  4. That the government is likely to do a better job of managing and
   >  furthering American economic interests than the private sector.

   I do not make this assumption. What I do is make the assumption that the NSA
   has more crypto experience than the private sector. Since Clipper is
   voluntary, there is no assumption that the government is doing a "better"
   job but rather that the government can do certain "furthering" jobs the
   private sector unaided cannot do. Can you say NAFTA or GATT? Can you say
   "anti-dumping laws"?  (Let's not get into a discussion of whether one likes
   these laws or not--I'm making a point about public economics.)

Regarding NAFTA and GATT, one might note that it was government that
imposed tariffs and other obstacles to free trade in the first place.

Anyhow, none of the examples you present are even remotely relevant to
the Clipper situation.  If the government wanted to help further private
sector crypto, it could require the NSA, which is an agency within the
government, to make available to the general public, with no strings
attached, one or more crypto systems.

   >  5. That the government is sufficiently honest that its stated agenda
   >  may be taken at face value.

   The "stated agenda" has been widely debated in both Washington and in the
   national press, prior to the government making the policy decision that it
   should change its policy and provide strong crypto to the private sector. It
   stands on widely discussed logic and facts, not some "secret" information.

I don't understand this at all.

   As I've said in my primary message, the escrow aspects of Clipper stand on
   separate issues than does the making available of secure crypto itself.

Wrong.  Due to the very nature of the proposal, it is impossible to
separate any of the issues.  Clipper is being presented as a monolithic
system, with no possible public review of any of its components.  It is
not even possible to evaluate the claim that the algorithm is strong!

   Some have tried to make a particular argument that attempts to get around
   the voluntary nature of Clipper, which on its face makes Clipper
   unobjectionable. They have argued two points:

   1. The government might change their mind about "voluntary" in the future.

   If so, let's cross that bridge when we come to it. Depriving those who want
   Clipper with escrow because of some fear of future action is both bad policy
   and bad economics. It's bad policy because it can be used to stop any
   positive development because someone MIGHT do something bad about it in the
   future, and it's bad economics because it doesn't consider the economic
   interests of those who want Clipper now, nor make an economic assessment of
   the assertion "might make it mandatory in future".

Once we reach that point, it will be much more difficult, at best, to
change course.  It's much easier to be proactive than reactive about
this.

BTW, your comment about bad policy because someoen MIGHT do something
bad can be cast in a very different light.  It is indeed bad policy to
deny, or discourage, the private sector from using strong, open,
unescrowed crypto because someone MIGHT use it to further bad pursuits.

   2. Because clipper becomes cheap and ubiquitous, it might drive out what the
   speaker asserts to be "good" crypto.

   This is essentially an authoritarian, elitist argument. Since the escrow
   feature of Clipper has been widely publicized, those who accept it do so
   with full knowledge of the escrow. Thus those who argue (2) are in effect
   substituting what they want for what those who would otherwise use Clipper
   are willing to take. In other words, they are substituting their desires for
   the choices of consumers in the marketplace. Actually, "authoritarian and
   elitist" are not strong enough characterizations for such behavior, but I'm
   trying to argue, not to inflame.

1) They may have full knowledge, but not be in a position to give fully
voluntary consent.  If the government requires companies that do
business with it to adopt the Clipper standard, it's that much more
expensive to adopt a parallel crypto system for other work.

2) Clipper is being heavily subsidized by the government, so there is
not a level playing field between it and potential competing systems.
Furthermore, this is a field where issues of cost are crucial, and
compatibility between users is essential for operation.  This is not the
operation of a free market at all -- this is an attempt by a large,
powerful entity to grab monopoly control over a market.
--
Robert Krawitz <rlk@think.com>	OS/IO Software Engineer	(617)234-2116
Thinking Machines Corp.		245 First St.	 Cambridge, MA  02142

Member of the League for Programming Freedom -- mail lpf@uunet.uu.net
Tall Clubs International  --  tci-request@think.com or 1-800-521-2512
