Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!think.com!news!rlk
From: rlk@merlin.think.com (Robert Krawitz)
Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Please explain the problem with clipper
Date: 2 Jan 94 14:11:58
Organization: Thinking Machines Corporation, Cambridge Mass., USA
Lines: 67
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <RLK.94Jan2141158@merlin.think.com>
References: <2g4adv$1s7@sol.tis.com> <2g55q5$iiq@senator-bedfellow.MIT.EDU>
	<2g5uqh$1l4@agate.berkeley.edu> <RLK.94Jan2092235@merlin.think.com>
	<strnlghtCJ0K62.A31@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: merlin.think.com
In-reply-to: strnlght@netcom.com's message of Sun, 2 Jan 1994 17:49:14 GMT
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:24361 alt.privacy.clipper:1735 sci.crypt:22442

In article <strnlghtCJ0K62.A31@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:

   Many companies, including small underfunded ones, release software which
   they only market in the U.S. (nothing to do with crypto). Thus it must be
   profitable.

I didn't say that it isn't profitable, I just said that doing multiple
software releases is a real headache.

   If the incremental European market is then also profitable they will sell
   software in Europe as well. In most cases such software must be "localized"
   for European languages anyway--hence at least two or more releases.

But there are already standards (adhered to in the breach, perhaps) for
language processing.  And not all software products are actually
localized, language-wise, and a lot of those that are simply use
different text files for different languages.  Crypto is something that
has to be handled in low level communication protocols, which makes for
much greater complexity.

   Thus I conclude that arguments to remove crypto controls so that companies
   can produce one version rather than two are essentially specious--that is
   that companies are after a little more profit at the expense of what the
   government presently thinks to be national security. It isn't that companies
   are prevented from doing two releases and making a good profit on both--it's
   that they want even more.

David, you're full of it.  The argument is NOT specious.  When you're
dealing with a system with a million lines of code, anything that
increases the number of releases you have to do makes for MAJOR
increased problems.  The issue of language is indeed a thorny one -- OSF
is trying mightily to tackle it with Motif, and is not entirely
succeeding (to judge from a recent Unix Review article on the subject).
Unix doesn't even try -- everything in Unix is in English.  And again,
choice of language is relatively easy to handle -- it does not require
that low level communication protocols understand it, the difference is
at the very highest level of user interface.

When you have a system with crypto embedded in it -- and a
communications system that is designed to be secure MUST have the
security, including encryption, designed into it -- doing a separate
release with the crypto removed constitutes a MAJOR change in the
system.  This cannot simply be settled with an #ifdef CRYPT; along with
recompilation, it requires retesting of every component of the system
which interacts with the crypto, which may mean every program that uses
the network.  This requires either additional time or additional
hardware, or both.

Finally, with all the rhetoric about over-regulation, why isn't this a
prime example of it?

   Hence greed vs. national security.

   I do not argue whether the government is right to claim national security in
   this matter or not, since I am not in a position to KNOW, and have heard
   logical arguments (mostly involving increased volumes of strongly encrypted
   traffic) as to why the government COULD BE making a legitimate argument.

Oh, foo.  It's the government's job to prove to the people why there is
a threat to national security, not the people's job to prove to the
government that something isn't.
--
Robert Krawitz <rlk@think.com>	OS/IO Software Engineer	(617)234-2116
Thinking Machines Corp.		245 First St.	 Cambridge, MA  02142

Member of the League for Programming Freedom -- mail lpf@uunet.uu.net
Tall Clubs International  --  tci-request@think.com or 1-800-521-2512
