Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!decwrl!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: Please explain the problem with clipper
Message-ID: <strnlghtCJ0tE9.MEv@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <2g55q5$iiq@senator-bedfellow.MIT.EDU> <RLK.94Jan2092235@merlin.think.com> <2g6n5c$4gc@agate.berkeley.edu> <CJ0q3x.JDE@apollo.hp.com>
Distribution: inet
Date: Sun, 2 Jan 1994 21:08:32 GMT
Lines: 30
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:24377 alt.privacy.clipper:1750 sci.crypt:22456


Bill Sommerfeld says it's harder to do two versions of software than one.
That isn't the issue, at least not from my point of view. As long as both
are profitable, then an argument to relax security regulations to permit a
single version is simply an argument for higher profits, nothing more.
If both aren't profitable, then perhaps the company should confine itself to
the U.S market. If neither is profitable, then the company shouldn't be
making the product.

As for the case where two versions aren't profitable but one would be
because of the larger total market if export of the single version were
permitted, it seems to me that's a pretty weak product and one with such
high economic risks it, too, shouldn't be marketed. Even the Japanese (who
have large export markets) haven't been so business-stupid. In fact, some of
their bigger economic successes involve products with multiple versions for
multiple export targets and differing national standards.

And even our software makers will always be confronted with different
languages, measurement systems, time and date conventions, etc. etc. if they
wish to market overseas. Compared to that, the technical difficulties in
shortening key length for export versions, for example, are trivial. (Here
I'm addressing those who argue technical difficulty of two versions, not the
economic issue.)

David


-- 
David Sternlight         When the mouse laughs at the cat,
                         there is a hole nearby.--Nigerian Proverb
