Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!think.com!news!rlk
From: rlk@merlin.think.com (Robert Krawitz)
Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Please explain the problem with clipper
Date: 2 Jan 94 17:57:30
Organization: Thinking Machines Corporation, Cambridge Mass., USA
Lines: 52
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <RLK.94Jan2175730@merlin.think.com>
References: <Apr21.233200.70723@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU>
	<19931213230110.scott.klement@sklement.AtlantaGA.NCR.COM>
	<3949@dwrsun5.dwrsun4.UUCP>
	<2g6vlm$5hu@charm.magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu>
	<strnlghtCJ0My8.E75@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: merlin.think.com
In-reply-to: strnlght@netcom.com's message of Sun, 2 Jan 1994 18:49:19 GMT
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:24383 alt.privacy.clipper:1755 sci.crypt:22460

In article <strnlghtCJ0My8.E75@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:

   Though this is speculative, the argument is correct if the assumptions are
   correct. Like some arguments of others, this focusses on what I think to be
   the right issues--making sure the escrow system cannot be abused. I think an
   attempt to reject Clipper on basic policy grounds is doomed to failure, but
   I think concerns that the escrow system will work as advertised and only as
   advertised are legitimate, central, and important.

I think that it's impossible to guarantee that an escrow system of this
nature will forever continue to work exactly as advertised (not that
even that is well defined yet).  It will be all too tempting for the
rules to be changed later on.  Even if it isn't, what happens if The Bad
Guys manage to infiltrate someone into the escrow agencies?  Then
there's no privacy whatsoever, because the entire scheme has been
compromised.  Even assuming a government with perfect intentions,
there's a single point of failure (well, OK, two points are needed to
compromise it) for the entire system.

   >But, bottom line, what bothers me is this is a proposal from our government
   >for implementation of what is really a privacy reduction technology :(

   I don't see how this argument can be made given that Clipper will, by and
   large substitute for what is now unencrypted voice, and weak single DES
   (with Skipjack). It seems those concerned about Clipper are not living in
   the real world in that they are comparing a real project underway (Clipper)
   with a notion (something non-escrowed but secure) rather than with what it
   will, by and large, replace. Thus it is a privacy improvement technology.

DES hasn't been proven particularly weak.  It's still probably very
expensive to break, if good passwords and other precautions (such as
compressing the data before encryption) are used.  While perhaps (and
perhaps not) Capstone is theoretically harder to break, there will be
another known attack against it -- break into the escrow agencies.

   Now for a separate remark unrelated to Jim specifically. Many who dislike
   Clipper make the mistake of comparing something that increases privacy with
   something else they wish they had that would increase it even
   further--namely a known algorithm with no escrow which is thought BY THEM
   (since they don't trust the NSA) to be highly secure.

But at least known algorithms can be evaluated by experts and debated
freely.  While the NSA doubtless has lots of expertise in this field,
they are not the only people who have studied cryptography in depth.
And even a weaker system may be better in practice if the keys are more
closely guarded.
--
Robert Krawitz <rlk@think.com>	OS/IO Software Engineer	(617)234-2116
Thinking Machines Corp.		245 First St.	 Cambridge, MA  02142

Member of the League for Programming Freedom -- mail lpf@uunet.uu.net
Tall Clubs International  --  tci-request@think.com or 1-800-521-2512
