Path: msuinfo!agate!spool.mu.edu!think.com!news!rlk
From: rlk@merlin.think.com (Robert Krawitz)
Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Please explain the problem with clipper
Date: 2 Jan 94 18:36:25
Organization: Thinking Machines Corporation, Cambridge Mass., USA
Lines: 134
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <RLK.94Jan2183625@merlin.think.com>
References: <Apr21.233200.70723@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU> <2g6utu$k2o@access.digex.net>
	<strnlghtCJ0LAq.BK6@netcom.com> <RLK.94Jan2135146@merlin.think.com>
	<strnlghtCJ0s0y.Kto@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: merlin.think.com
In-reply-to: strnlght@netcom.com's message of Sun, 2 Jan 1994 20:38:58 GMT
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:24387 alt.privacy.clipper:1759 sci.crypt:22463

In article <strnlghtCJ0s0y.Kto@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:

   In article <RLK.94Jan2135146@merlin.think.com>,
   Robert Krawitz <rlk@merlin.think.com> wrote:

...
   So what? This simply supports my point that a legitimately accepted role for
   the government is to "further" the economy. Can you say "Full Employment Act
   of 19xx", for example? Can you say "Federal Reserve Act"? Can you say
   "Department of Agriculture"? Though you may disagree with particular
   policies, there's not doubt about the legitimacy of the government's role
   here.

I'm not a libertarian -- I do believe that there is a role for the
government in situations in which the private sector has demonstrated
that it can't meet a need.  However, that does not apply in this
situation; the private sector has been hard at work on crypto systems
recently.

   >   As I've said in my primary message, the escrow aspects of Clipper
   >   stand on separate issues than does the making available of secure
   >   crypto itself.

   >Wrong.  Due to the very nature of the proposal, it is impossible to
   >separate any of the issues.  Clipper is being presented as a monolithic
   >system, with no possible public review of any of its components.  It is
   >not even possible to evaluate the claim that the algorithm is strong!

   Wrong? As a factual matter the whole thing is still in discussion, people
   have been making representations, some Congresspeople have taken notice.

On further thought, you're correct, although I don't believe so as
regards Clipper or Capstone.  However, I've seen no evidence thus far
that the government is willing to separate the escrow agency from any
government-supplied system.  Until the government appears willing to
compromise on this issue, I stand by my opinion.

   Thus it's possible to discuss details. Further, the government has even
   recently shown that some aspects are still under consideration. Thus it's
   perfectly proper to separate the issue of the escrow and assurances it will
   work as advertised and not otherwise from the basic issue of NSA providing
   secure crypto to the private sector.

Well, in that case I'd rather separate the issue of strong crypto from
that of the NSA supplying strong crypto to the private sector.
					
					Further, as a matter of elementary
   policy analysis it's inaccurate to make arguments that are really about the
   escrow as if they were arguments about other aspects of the proposal, and is
   sure to get the arguer ignored as uh, er, um "not fully informed".

It may be a bit nonstandard in terms of the etiquette of policy analysis
(a subject of which I freely admit ignorance), but in this case I
believe that the government considers escrow to be at the heart of the
matter and Clipper as a way to get escrowed crypto into general
acceptance.

   >Once we reach that point, it will be much more difficult, at best, to
   >change course.  It's much easier to be proactive than reactive about
   >this.

   I see. So you want to deprive consumers in the marketplace from free choice
   because it's "easier" than dealing with any perhaps changes to behavior in
   the future. I'd like to introduce you to my friend Filanovsky, formerly
   employed at Gosplan in Moscow.

In this case, yes.  I believe this proposal to be a Trojan horse which
if widely adopted will lead to harm, subtle or otherwise, to a lot of
people (and as I said in a previous article, even with the best of
intentions this kind of scheme has a dangerous point of potential
failure).  And speaking of legitimate government regulation, the
government has long forbidden the sale of certain things because of the
potential of harm to the user.  I do not say this easily, but in this
case I can draw no other conclusion.

And you're complaining about insinuations, eh?  I apologize for my
remark in a previous posting that you're "full of it"; it was typed out
of anger.  But in this case, as regards the last sentence in the above
paragraph, David, you're full of it.

   >BTW, your comment about bad policy because someoen MIGHT do something
   >bad can be cast in a very different light.  It is indeed bad policy to
   >deny, or discourage, the private sector from using strong, open,
   >unescrowed crypto because someone MIGHT use it to further bad pursuits.

   Straw man. The private sector does use RSA, TDES, Ripem, Techmail, TISPEM,
   etc. etc.

Yes, and these methods have been spreading widely.  So why does the
government need to step in now?

   >1) They may have full knowledge, but not be in a position to give fully
   >voluntary consent.

   Right. The old "I know more than you do" argument. We've seen this contempt
   before in some characterizations by elitists of general computer users. Feh!

That's not what I meant here; if they're being held over a barrel by the
government which insists that they use Clipper to communicate with the
government, and their profits are being squeezed by being in a
competitive industry, they may find themselves forced to do so or go out
of business.

   >2) Clipper is being heavily subsidized by the government, so there is
   >not a level playing field between it and potential competing systems.
   >Furthermore, this is a field where issues of cost are crucial, and
   >compatibility between users is essential for operation.  This is not the
   >operation of a free market at all -- this is an attempt by a large,
   >powerful entity to grab monopoly control over a market.

   There's no economic basis for this assertion. The government is not selling
   crypto systems. You might as well argue it's unfair for the government to
   subsidize the invention of, say, microcircuits, because that is an attempt
   to grab monopoly control over a market.

The government is not attempting to profit from the sale of Clipper,
true.  But the idea is to gain market share by means of "addicting"
people to it, as a means of furthering other goals.

   As for compatibility, I find this point, if you'll excuse my saying so,
   laughable and I'll say why. Right now there are no standards but rather
   competing cryptographic systems in the private sector. Though you may not
   like clipper for whatever reason, it is an advance toward compatibility
   compared to what we have now.

But not a compatibility that results from open competition, but rather
one that results from imposition from above.  As for imposed standards,
witness NTSC and FM stereo.
--
Robert Krawitz <rlk@think.com>	OS/IO Software Engineer	(617)234-2116
Thinking Machines Corp.		245 First St.	 Cambridge, MA  02142

Member of the League for Programming Freedom -- mail lpf@uunet.uu.net
Tall Clubs International  --  tci-request@think.com or 1-800-521-2512
