Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!eff!news.kei.com!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!senator-bedfellow.mit.edu!athena.mit.edu!burt
From: burt@chirality.rsa.com (Burt Kaliski)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Short RSA public exponents?
Date: 3 Jan 94 16:37:23
Organization: RSA Data Security, Inc.
Lines: 44
Distribution: sci
Message-ID: <BURT.94Jan3163723@chirality.rsa.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: rsa.com

A recent post by Trevor Blackwell <tlb@das.harvard.edu> commented on
problems with short RSA public exponents. I'm enclosing a copy of
email I sent recently to Bruce Schneier, in response to similar
comments in his nice book Applied Cryptography. The response shows
that short RSA public exponents need not introduce a security
weakness.

For reference, RSA cryptography involves two keys: a public key (n,e)
and a private key (n,d), where n is the modulus, e is the public
exponent, and d is the private exponent. Choosing a short value for
the public exponent e improves performance, but some have expressed
concern that it reduces security.

-----
[[excerpt from message to Bruce Schneier]]

Two comments for now, both regarding the section "Low Exponent Attack 
Against RSA" on page 287:

1. Using low values for e, the public key is only insecure if linearly
dependent messages are encrypted with e(e+1) different public keys.
If there are fewer than that many messages, or if the messages are
unrelated, there is no problem.

Hastad states in the journal version of his paper ("Solving
Simultaneous Modular Equations of Low Degree," SIAM J. Comput,
17(2):336-341, April 1988): "Thus if a random padding were used ...
the present attack would not work." In protocols such as
Privacy-Enhanced Mail with low values for e, every message encrypted
with RSA has independent random padding, thereby avoiding Hastad's
attack.

2. Michael Wiener's attack recovers e, not when e is up to one quarter 
the length of n, but when the *decryption* exponent d is up to one 
quarter the length of n. No similar attack is known for low values of 
e. "Choose large values for e and d" is conservative advice, but not 
necessary.

-- Burt Kaliski
RSA Laboratories




