Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!uunet!olivea!hal.com!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!strnlght
From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: Please explain the problem with clipper
Message-ID: <strnlghtCJ3L1B.FtI@netcom.com>
Reply-To: david@sternlight.com (David Sternlight)
Organization: DSI/USCRPAC
References: <1994Jan03.135425.304760@electriciti.com>
Date: Tue, 4 Jan 1994 09:00:46 GMT
Lines: 131

In article <1994Jan03.135425.304760@electriciti.com>,
 <BRIAN_F._OPITZ@electriciti.com> wrote:
>I have been reading with some interest the discussion that you have been
>having regarding the Cliper proposal. It appears to me that there are
>several points that are very troublesome.

The points you mention are made by those opposing clipper. There is no
evidence for them, only distrust, coupled with the theory that if some in
past governments behaved badly (and, by the way, got caught), that
government is tainted.

That's like saying that if some locksmiths were crooks, you can't design a
reliable lock by using sufficiently clever technology and exercising care
with the manufacturing and distribution process.

>
>1. The government plans/wants to outlaw other crypto technologies and have
>everyone use Clipper.

The government has said the opposite, explicitly. Thus anyone who claims
this is making it up, based on what I think to be an overactively fearful
imagination. Others disagree and point to past government abuses.

By the way, it's good to have suspicious people around, as long as they are
rational and focus on substance. That's how we learn to make systems even
better.

>
>This is a very counter-productive for the software industry in general as
>this segment of american industry is where we still hold a very good
>position worldwide. From what I gather in this discusssion, Clipper is not
>the best solution to the problem of a crypto standard. It gives those
>people (NSA, FBI) a way to invade the privacy of everyone who communicates
>electronically even if it is in a totally legal fashion.

No. It only allows them to "invade" the privacy of people for whom they have
a court order to tap their phones based on probable cause. The number of
such orders is reported by the Attorney General each year, and numbers about
400 or less. (The number 70 also sticks in my mind for some reason.)

Your point about the software industry also confuses Clipper with the quite
separate matter of export regulations. There the question is whether the
software industry's incremental profits from permitting the exports of
"good" crypto would be big enough to offset the national security and law
enforcement losses. Some of the issues here are rather subtle--it's not just
as simple as "that cat is already out of the bag", and they are more
suitable for another message. They have already been made, extensively, by
some in these discussions over the past year.


>
>2. They want it this way so they can have a universal method of data
>encryption that only they have the means to break for what ever reasons
>they deem adequate.

There's no evidence for this imputation of motives. Your mind-reading
abilities must be rather better than my own if you know this. They have said
they don't intend to outlaw non-Clipper crypto.

They cannot "break" Clipper, I think. What they can do is get a court order
for keys for those for whom they have a court order to wiretap.

>They claim that this is the best way to have a national standard to prevent
>illegal activity from taking place through electronic means. If they outlaw
>every other crypto means other then Clipper, then only outlaws will have
>better encryption than Clipper which defeats the purpose of Clipper anyway.

They claim nothing about a "national standard". Again, they have indicated
no intention to outlaw non-Clipper crypto, and some  believe they could not,
on Constitutional grounds. Others argue that if they try we can get Congress
to stop them. Thus this is a "what if" case best dealt with only if it looks
like it is going to arise. Those who raise this strongly right now are just
throwing whatever logs they can into the fire to support their general
opposition to Clipper. It is a poor argument.

>
>3. They are not concerned with the privacy of the average person who wants
>to use encryption to prevent the other average person from reading their
>E-mail.

To the contrary, since it is highly unlikely that they could get a court
ordered wiretap for such a person (on a statistical basis alone, even if you
assume the 400 wiretaps per year are all on innocent people, that's 400 out
of 200 million or some such), the privacy of the average person is vastly
enhanced with a strong system like Clipper. But it's nutty to assume that if
DOJ only gets 400 wiretaps per year approved (or 70 or whatever), they'd
waste them on marginal cases. It's almost a guarantee that they're on
well-known organized crime figures and drug lords, with the occasional
blatant-seeming (i.e. lots of collateral evidence) case of espionage.

>They may not be concerned with the average persons privacy, but the average
>person should be concerned with the governments lack of concern for said
>privacy rights. If I chose to encrypt my mail for privacy reasons then I do
>it because I want no-one,  including the government,  to be reading it
>except the person to whom it is addressed. 

Too bad. If you are a drug lord or organized crime figure and the government
can get a court order for a wiretap on you, you don't have this right. Given
the numbers I cited above, it's a dead cert that some average citizen won't
be in this position, but guys named Lucky or Al whose "business rivals" are
suddenly found floating in the river, or guys named Pablo who are seen to be
transferring massive funds without any credible explanation (or in violation
of the over $10,000 reporting requirement) might be one of the chosen few.

>We are all guaranteed privacy by
>the constitution.

This is untrue. The point has been debated extensively. There is no explicit
"right to privacy" in the Constitution. It has been found in some court
decisions on specific matters in "the penumbra" i.e. the shadow, of the
Constitution, but that concept is one easily subject to change as various
courts re-examine it since it is an "inferred" concept rather than one
spelled out in the Constitution. "Strict constructionist" Justices do not
acknowledge it.

> The elected officials and policymakers have no right to
>take that away by any means. This seems to be a ploy by Washington and
>others to usurp our rights in the digital privacy area. Privacy, whether in
>your home or in your electronic communications is privacy none-the-less. We
>should not look upon this issue lightly, as it will effect how we work and
>communicate in the future. We should not allow our rights to be infringed
>in such an arbitrary manner.

Nothing is being infringed. Clipper is voluntary. If you don't want to use
it, you don't have to (except for the special case of doing business, which
is also voluntary, with the government, and even then only maybe).

David
-- 
David Sternlight         When the mouse laughs at the cat,
                         there is a hole nearby.--Nigerian Proverb
