Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!network.ucsd.edu!news.cerf.net!BRIAN_F._OPITZ@electriciti.com
Message-ID: <1994Jan03.135425.304760@electriciti.com>
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
From: BRIAN_F._OPITZ@electriciti.com
Distribution: world
Organization: ElectriCiti, San Diego, CA, USA
Date: Mon, 03 Jan 1994 13:54:25 PST
Subject: Re: Please explain the problem with clipper
Lines: 44

I have been reading with some interest the discussion that you have been
having regarding the Cliper proposal. It appears to me that there are
several points that are very troublesome.

1. The government plans/wants to outlaw other crypto technologies and have
everyone use Clipper.

This is a very counter-productive for the software industry in general as
this segment of american industry is where we still hold a very good
position worldwide. From what I gather in this discusssion, Clipper is not
the best solution to the problem of a crypto standard. It gives those
people (NSA, FBI) a way to invade the privacy of everyone who communicates
electronically even if it is in a totally legal fashion.

2. They want it this way so they can have a universal method of data
encryption that only they have the means to break for what ever reasons
they deem adequate.

They claim that this is the best way to have a national standard to prevent
illegal activity from taking place through electronic means. If they outlaw
every other crypto means other then Clipper, then only outlaws will have
better encryption than Clipper which defeats the purpose of Clipper anyway.

3. They are not concerned with the privacy of the average person who wants
to use encryption to prevent the other average person from reading their
E-mail.

They may not be concerned with the average persons privacy, but the average
person should be concerned with the governments lack of concern for said
privacy rights. If I chose to encrypt my mail for privacy reasons then I do
it because I want no-one,  including the government,  to be reading it
except the person to whom it is addressed. We are all guaranteed privacy by
the constitution. The elected officials and policymakers have no right to
take that away by any means. This seems to be a ploy by Washington and
others to usurp our rights in the digital privacy area. Privacy, whether in
your home or in your electronic communications is privacy none-the-less. We
should not look upon this issue lightly, as it will effect how we work and
communicate in the future. We should not allow our rights to be infringed
in such an arbitrary manner.





