Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!newsserver.jvnc.net!yale.edu!cmcl2!edhuff.dial.net.nyu.edu!user
From: huff@mcclb0.med.nyu.edu (Edward J. Huff)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,talk.politics.crypto
Subject: Please use talk.politics.crypto
Followup-To: talk.politics.crypto
Date: Wed, 05 Jan 1994 06:15:09 -0500
Organization: New York University Chemistry Dept.
Lines: 49
Expires: 01 Mar 1994
Message-ID: <huff-050194061509@edhuff.dial.net.nyu.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: edhuff.dial.net.nyu.edu
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:22563 comp.org.eff.talk:24648 alt.privacy.clipper:1935 talk.politics.crypto:2033

Time to post this again.

talk.politics.crypto needs more traffic.   Please include it on your
newsgroups line when appropriate.  If you do not, you miss some of your
audience since not everyone interested in politics of cryptography reads
sci.crypt.  In fact, skipping the political postings in sci.crypt is a good
way to avoid reading messages from people who don't know what they are
doing. (joke!? :-)

sci.crypt needs less traffic.  Please exclude it except for technical
discussions.  Also, when following up to a political posting on sci.crypt,
please edit the headers of your posting as follows, and remember, the
header is not "Followups-to: ".

From: ...
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,etc.etc
Subject: Re: ...

becomes

From: ...
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto,etc.etc
Followup-to: talk.politics.crypto,etc.etc
Subject: Re: ...

Note the addition of t.p.c to the Newsgroups line and deletion of sci.crypt
from the Followup-to line.  Removing sci.crypt from the newsgroup line kind
of defeats the purpose, which is to keep a Followup-to in the last posting
on the thread in sci.crypt.  Do not copy the previous posting just to add a
Followup-to header, and do not add a blank posting with a Followup-to,
since people will followup to earlier postings and will not followup to the
blank posting because there is nothing there to reply to.

Some newsreaders make this difficult.  On Vax/VMS ANU-News, you have
to use the "FOLLOW/HEADER" command.

If talk.politics.crypto does not exist at your site, please ask your news
admin to create it, get a feed for it, etc.  It usually never hurts to ask.
 If he won't create it, at least ask him to make it possible to include
t.p.c on the Newsgroups: line.

If your news admin refuses to create talk.politics.crypto for local
political reasons (or if you are afraid to ask), then the same argument
applies to your political posting to sci.crypt:  if the system isn't
supposed to be used for such things as t.p.c, it shouldn't be used for
postings that belong in t.p.c either.  You should look into a private
account on one of the many cheap or free public access usenet systems.  You
might be able to telnet to the public access system from you restricted
system.
