Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!senator-bedfellow.mit.edu!athena.mit.edu!burt
From: burt@chirality.rsa.com (Burt Kaliski)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: MEETING REMINDER: IEEE RSA/Diffie-Hellman Working Group
Date: 5 Jan 94 15:25:35
Organization: RSA Data Security, Inc.
Lines: 82
Distribution: sci
Message-ID: <BURT.94Jan5152535@chirality.rsa.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: rsa.com

This is a reminder of next Thursday's meeting of IEEE working group
P1363, which is developing standards for public-key cryptography based
on the RSA and Diffie-Hellman algorithms. If you'd like to
participate, please let me know.

-- Burt Kaliski
RSA Laboratories
----------------------------------------------------------------------

  IEEE P1363: Standard for RSA, Diffie-Hellman and Related
                   Public-Key Cryptography


                      MEETING REMINDER

           Thursday, January 13, 1994, 1:00-6:00pm
              Hotel Sofitel, Redwood Shores, CA


This first meeting of the working group, open to the public,
will refine the scope of the work, select base documents,
set a preliminary schedule, and assign the work.

AGENDA

    1. Overview of the Project

    2. Refinement of Scope

    3. Base Documents

    4. Schedule and Milestones

    5. Work Assignments; Election of Officers

If you'd like to participate, contact Burt Kaliski, the
working group's interim chair, at RSA Laboratories, 100
Marine Parkway, Redwood City, CA 94065. Phone: (415)
595-7703, FAX: (415) 595-4126, E-mail: burt@rsa.com.


BACKGROUND

This summer, IEEE's Standards Activities Board authorized
this new working group, P1363, to develop standards for
public-key cryptography based on the Rivest-Shamir-Adleman
(RSA) and Diffie-Hellman algorithms. The purpose of the
work, as stated in the group's IEEE project authorization
request, is the following:

    The transition from paper to electronic media brings
    with it the need for electronic privacy and
    authenticity. Public-key techniques offer fundamental
    primitives addressing this need. While work is in
    progress on architectures and protocols employing these
    primitives, and while some aspects are standardized,
    there is no broad treatment covering all benefits of
    public-key technology. The proposed standard will
    promote interoperability and provide a basis for
    securing all kinds of digital data.

The intention is to complete the public-key standards
picture for the RSA and Diffie-Hellman algorithms,
complementing other efforts already in progress, such as
those in ASC X9F1 and ISO. 

The scope of the work includes:

    Management of and agreement on keys for secret-key
    systems such as DES with public-key systems such as RSA
    and Diffie-Hellman in microprocessor and
    microcomputer-based systems. Authentication of hash
    values with such systems. Encryption and authentication
    of messages with such systems. Generation and
    representation of keys and parameters. Microprocessor
    and microcomputer support for such systems.

IEEE's Microprocessor Standards Committee is the working
group's sponsor. As such there is opportunity to address
microprocessor issues such as cryptographic accelerators,
secure storage, and random number sources, in addition to
the algorithm and protocol details.
