Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!mp.cs.niu.edu!tk0jut1
From: tk0jut1@mp.cs.niu.edu (jim thomas)
Subject: Re: Please explain the problem with clipper
Message-ID: <1994Jan6.054831.24319@mp.cs.niu.edu>
Organization: Northern Illinois University
References: <2gd74l$1cb@news.sprintlink.net> <1994Jan5.055324.31692@mp.cs.niu.edu> <strnlghtCJ694w.BIF@netcom.com>
Distribution: inet
Date: Thu, 6 Jan 1994 05:48:31 GMT
Lines: 45
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:24753 alt.privacy.clipper:1979 sci.crypt:22617 talk.politics.crypto:2085

vid Sternlight writes:
 
>Just so, given all the scandals of the past (and most were exposed and
>corrected by the government itself--how does that gybe with your demon
>theory?), there are extensive legal and oversight safeguards that didn't
>exist in those days, such that until recently the problem was that some
>national security organizations actually couldn't do the job Congress
>expected of them. The pendulum finally swung a little of the way back, and
>Congress reduced its level of paranoia (I don't say it was unjustified on
>the historical record) a bit. But we are a long way from agencies out of
>control today, and the evidence of the current administration is that they
>continue to clean house (their exposure of and behavior toward the radiation
>tests being but one example).
 
David's false imputation to me of a "demon theory" aside, he is
correct in observing the existence of regulatory and other controls
on domestic surveillance. That these are not always followed is
illustrated by the Chicago police violation of a federal court order
against political surveillance in the 1980s, by creative interpreations
of RICO and other statutes by law enforcement officials in alleged
drug cases, and other intrusions on privacy (see, for example, the
newsletter First Principles, which has detailed such things for 
over 15 years--hardly a conspiratorial or hysterical medium).
 
He is, however, in error in the claim that "most ((abuses)) were exposed and
corrected by the government itself." Most were exposed by litigation or
media revelations. The revelations, not some self-correcting mechanism of
"government" acting independently, led to reform. The same concerns that
impelled reform then are analagous to those reflected in Clipper opposition
today. The potential abuses of Clipper have not yet been adequately 
addressed by its advocates.
 
I'm also uncomfortable with what I understand to be David's claim that
there was some historical justification for the "paranoia" that led to
gross excesses of domestic political surveillance. I'm not convinced
that starting a "Red Squad File" on somebody for belonging to the
National Lawyer's Guild or writing a letter in opposition to the Viet Nam
war are so-easily justified. That David Sternlight can suggest that
such acts "were not unjustified on the historical record" only reinforces
the need to oppose Clipper lest a similar "historical record" emerges
to justify a resurgence of paranoia. 
 
Jim Thomas


