Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!uunet!psinntp!suite.com!usenet
From: Jim-Miller@suite.com
Newsgroups: alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Subject: the black box with the key in it
Date: 7 Jan 1994 05:00:29 GMT
Organization: Suite Software
Lines: 46
Message-ID: <2giq9d$eai@bilbo.suite.com>
Reply-To: Jim-Miller@suite.com
NNTP-Posting-Host: nimrod.suite.com
Xref: msuinfo alt.privacy.clipper:2004 sci.crypt:22647


I occasionally see references to "the black box with the key in it", but I  
haven't seen any good description of this box and how it will work.

For example, what will be the protocol used to load the key into the box?   
Obviously, the protocol wont transfer the clipper key in the clear.  

What encryption algorithm is used to encrypt the clipper keys during  
transmission?  Does each box have it's own secret key, known only to the escrow  
agencies (and the box, of course), or will it use public-key encryption?

Seems public-key would be the better choice.  Who generates the key(s) for the  
black boxes, and how are they secured?

I assume the protocol sends the two clipper key halves, and the box reassembles  
the key?  It would be a security risk to first assemble the key and then  
transmit it, regardless of the protocol.

I assume both the clipper key and the box's private key will be destroyed if  
the box is opened.  I also assume the black boxes will be shielded to prevent  
electromagnetically leaking either key during use?  


Will the clipper key databases be replicated to a number of different sites to  
insure availability, or will there be a single pair of databases deep in the  
bowels the escrow agency buildings?  Where will the database backups be stored?   
In the same buildings as the live databases?  Seems vulnerable.

How will the government prevent denial-of-service attacks against the  
communications network used to transmit the clipper keys to the black boxes.   
If somebody cuts/jams the communication paths leading to/from either (doesn't  
have to be both) of the escrow agencies, then they would disrupt the whole ball  
of wax. 

How will the escrow agencies authenticate the clipper key requests?  I realize  
that the requests must be accompanied by a valid warrant, but will the requests  
be done "in person" or electronically.  I assume they will be done  
electronically to save time and money.  If so, will law enforcement use  
public-key technology to transmit signed warrants and signed clipper key  
requests to the escrow agencies?  If so, who will create and distribute the  
public-key pairs to the nation's judges and law enforcement agents?  How will  
these keys be secured?


Jim_Miller@suite.com

