Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!newsgate.watson.ibm.com!watnews.watson.ibm.com!hawnews.watson.ibm.com!hawnews!lucien
From: lucien@watson.ibm.com (Lucien Van Elsen)
Subject: FWD: AT&T SecureE Software
Sender: news@hawnews.watson.ibm.com (NNTP News Poster)
Message-ID: <LUCIEN.94Jan6144649@issc10.watson.ibm.com>
Date: Thu, 6 Jan 1994 19:46:48 GMT
Disclaimer: This posting represents the poster's views, not necessarily those of IBM.
Nntp-Posting-Host: issc10.watson.ibm.com
Organization: IBM T.J. Watson Research Center
Lines: 81

>Date: 5 Jan 94 15:24:16 GMT
>From: darneke@attmail.com (David R Arneke)
>Newsgroups: comp.dcom.telecom
>Subject: AT&T SecureE Software
>X-Telecom-Digest: Volume 14, Issue 10, Message 9 of 18

AT&T LICENSES LINKABLE CODE FOR SECURE SOFTWARE

     GREENSBORO, North Carolina -- AT&T is giving software developers
access to linkable code modules for encryption, public key exchange
and other communications security functions.

     AT&T announced today that a comprehensive library of linkable
code modules, including RSA security technology and the NIST Digital
Signature Algorithm, is available for licensing.  Linkable code is
available in the form of linkable object module libraries and Windows
Dynamic Link Libraries (DLLs), which are under license from
Information Security Corporation of Deerfield, Illinois.

     The code is compatible with shrink-wrapped programs recently
introduced by AT&T.

     The security functions included have applications for a broad
variety of software, including tax returns and other electronic-forms
programs, electronic mail, electronic data interchange and electronic
fund transfers.

     "Electronic commerce has an inherent requirement for privacy,
data integrity, authentication and non-repudiation," said Larry
Salter, director of secure systems and services for AT&T Secure
Communications Systems.

     "These capabilities are ideal for PCMCIA and smart-card
applications as well as conventional software for PCs and workstations."

     The package includes code for DES encryption, the ElGamal public
key cryptosystem, the Digital Signature Algorithm, the Secure Hash
Standard and most RSA security functions, including RSA encryption,
key management and digital signatures; MD5 hashing functions; and the
Diffie-Hellman key exchange protocol.  A proprietary encryption
algorithm for exportable applications is available as well.

     More than a dozen military and civilian federal agencies and a
growing number of corporations have already licensed the code for new
software applications, Salter said.

     "This is a full range of information security functions, relying
on the most widely accepted government and commercial standards,"
Salter said.

     Prices for code packages containing DSA technology are $750 for
the DOS/Windows version, $1,000 for the Macintosh version and $1250
for the UNIX version.  For code packages containing RSA technology are
$300 for the DOS/Windows version, $400 for the Macintosh version and
$500 for the UNIX version.

     The license allows developers to load the code into two workstations
for software development.  Royalty payments are required for distribution
of applications to end users.

     AT&T and ISC have incorporated the code modules into software
that provides a wide range of security capabilities.

     AT&T SecretAgent (R) Software provides DES encryption, ElGamal
key management and DSA digital signature technology.  AT&T SecretAgent
(R) II Software provides DES encryption, RSA digital signatures and
key management, and MD5 for message digests.  AT&T Surity (TM) DSA
Signature Software is a digital signature program.  And AT&T
SecureZMODEM (R) provides DES encryption and user-transparent key
management for data communications using the ZMODEM protocol.

     Programs using RSA technology are in development.

     Software developers can get more information on licensing the
AT&T linkable code module library by calling the AT&T Secure
Communications Customer Service Center, 1 800 203-5563.

--
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Lucien Van Elsen                                          IBM  Research
lucien@watson.ibm.com                                     Project Agora
