Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!senator-bedfellow.mit.edu!PIRANHA.LCS.MIT.EDU!douzzer
From: douzzer@PIRANHA.LCS.MIT.EDU (Daniel G. Pouzzner)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: patent status of the NIST SHA and DSA
Date: 7 Jan 1994 22:30:14 GMT
Organization: gaia
Lines: 45
Message-ID: <2gknpm$9ko@senator-bedfellow.MIT.EDU>
NNTP-Posting-Host: piranha.lcs.mit.edu
Keywords: SHA, DSA


i tried to post this earlier but some troll in the wires ate it.

can someone authoritatively answer the following questions?

1) is it legal to implement the SHA and DSA algorithms?
2) is it legal to use these implementations for personal use?
3) is it legal to use them for any non-profit use?
4) is it legal to distribute the implementations embedded as
   non-linkable (i.e. static or inline) binary code?
5) how about as compiled but linkable functions?
6) how about in source form?
7) is it legal to use the implementations for royalty-free commercial,
   i.e. for-profit, use?
8) is it legal to modify the DSA to use larger keys?
9) is it legal to modify the DSA to perform encryption/decryption, if
   technically feasible?

note that all of these questions apply only to those places where ITAR
doesn't restrict trade, i.e the US, Canada, maybe Mexico after NAFTA,
and US citizens abroad.

so, i am confident #1 through #3 are fine.
i'm not sure about the rest.

i am a little concerned about the SHA because it is a descendent of an
RSADSI-patented digest algorithm.

i am a little concerned about finagling the DSA algorithm to fit my
needs because of all the politics surrounding cryptography.

as an aside, can someone assay the quality of these digest and
signature algorithms? i know SHA's lineage so i imagine it's just
fine. what about DSA? i have the specification, but i am not a
mathematician so it either all looks like handwaving to me, or all
looks legit to me, but no intelligent middle ground. also, can anyone
see an obvious way to modify DSA to provide for secure channels like
RSA allows?

thanks in advance
-- 
-daniel                   douzzer@athena.mit.edu
Key fingerprint =  0B 99 0D 4F E8 55 9A 95  43 C1 7F B5 DF 8F E3 33 
finger douzzer@ai.mit.edu for public key
(finger douzzer@piranha.lcs.mit.edu for independent copy)
