Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!zib-berlin.de!netmbx.de!Germany.EU.net!EU.net!news.forth.gr!news.ntua.gr!krallis
From: krallis@theseas.ntua.gr (Costas Krallis)
Subject: "Introduction to Cryptology" by B.Becket (short review)
Message-ID: <CIwrEv.4tH@theseas.ntua.gr>
Followup-To: sci.crypt
Summary: Book Review
Sender: krallis@theseas.ntua.gr
Organization: Amateur Radio SV1XV
Date: Fri, 31 Dec 1993 16:35:59 GMT
Lines: 56


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

A few years ago I bought from the Dillons Bookstore in London, UK
a very nice book which covers most aspects of Cryptology but is
very rarely refered to. The title is "Introduction to Cryptology",
by Brian Beckett, Blackwell Scientific Publications, 1988.
ISBN 0-632-01836-4 (both paparack and hardback).

This book covers most aspects of cryptology, from simple ciphers
to RSA and DES, including examples of old military filed codes etc.
The algorithms are explained in detail, with examples, but there
is no computer code for any of them. There is a basic analysis
for the safety of many systems, but it does not enter deeply into
the mathematical analysis (which is covered well by Dorothy Denning
in "Cryptography and Data Security").

The coverage of older systems is extensive, more than is actually
needed nowdays but this approach has the advantage of introducing
the reader to "cryptological maths" gradually and not scaring him
away with complex formulas. 

Finally, there is a short section titled" Further Reading", but very
few references are given.

There are 17 chapters and 344 pages. It covers DES in 25 pages and
Public Key systems in 20. I recommend it as basic reading to persons
with some knowledge of general mathematics, linear algebra etc
and to computer programmers with no previous knowledge of the subject. 
who would like to start experimenting with codes and ciphers.

The publisher's price is 19.95 pounds sterling and the address is:

	Blackwel Scientific Publications
	Osney Mead,
	Oxford, OX2 0EL,
	United Kingdom


Regards, Costas


Costas Krallis, SV1XV
E-Mail: krallis@ntua.gr
Packet radio: SV1XV @ SV1UY.ATH.GRC.EU

PGP 3.2 Public key available.


-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.3a

iQBVAgUBLSRTumDaNKfCnikFAQFpjAIArP1Dv72+ecACJz2gRCGBvD7BIm13KYu4
YB66h5bj8wWt6CUJNfZMOZ8WWzHuNIlNzcnx/GXFnV/PUTSo5nDW8A==
=AdCT
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
