Newsgroups: alt.security,alt.security.pgp,sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!swrinde!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!jabowery
From: jabowery@netcom.com (Jim Bowery)
Subject: Re: Governmental Prohibition of Encrypti
Message-ID: <jaboweryCJCoFw.H7J@netcom.com>
Followup-To: alt.security,alt.security.pgp,sci.crypt
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
References: <jaboweryCJAKKD.CzI@netcom.com> <2gnkn4$mhm@news.sprintlink.net> <2gntqe$qro@xmission.xmission.com>
Distribution: inet
Date: Sun, 9 Jan 1994 06:52:44 GMT
Lines: 51
Xref: msuinfo alt.security:14114 alt.security.pgp:8014 sci.crypt:22703

Charles Johnston (cjohnst@xmission.xmission.com) wrote:
: I think you should take your own advice.  In the Bill of Rights,
: the fourth amendment states that "The right of the people to be
: secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects..."
: Because there is no specific prohibition of method and/or tools
: with which these can be kept secure, encryption IS protected
: by this.

Actually, I had a different argument, but the argument you make is
as good.  Here is my argument:
---------
Amendment I
 
Congress shall make no law ... abridging the freedom of speech,
or of the press; or the right of the people to peacefully 
assemble...
---------
 
This right is content neutral and, in particular, no prior
restraint of any kind may be enacted or enforced.
 
Also...
---------
Amendment IX
 
The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall
not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by
the people.
 
Amendment X
 
The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution,
nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States
respectively, or to the People.
---------
 
This means that if I choose to exercise my right to free speech
by speaking in gibberish that only others I wish to "peacefully
assemble" with can understand, that, in addition to the content 
neutrality of the First Amendment, the right to prohibit me from 
doing so has NOT be enumerated in the Constitution and is 
therefore "reserved to the States respectively, or to the People."

In any case, if Clinton's oath of office means anything, he
should be impeached for violating it in the event that he is
shown to take action to regulate domestic use of encryption 
technologies.

-- 
The promotion of politics exterminates apolitical genes in the population.
  The promotion of frontiers gives apolitical genes a route to survival.
