Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!sunic!trane.uninett.no!nntp.uio.no!ifi.uio.no!thork
From: thork@ifi.uio.no (Thor Oddleif Kristoffersen)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Why not extend DES?
Date: 9 Jan 1994 17:30:29 +0100
Organization: Dept. of Informatics, University of Oslo, Norway
Lines: 46
Message-ID: <2gpbf5$qte@hymir.ifi.uio.no>
NNTP-Posting-Host: hymir.ifi.uio.no


Why hasn't there been made any serious attempts to extend
DES? Single-DES is clearly inadequate for high security, so
people usually resort to triple-DES. This would have made
sense in hardware with off-the-shelf DES chips, but it is
often done in software as well. To me, this seems awfully
wasteful of CPU resources.

According to Michael J. Wiener, the strength of two-key
triple-DES is 10^{13} times that of single-DES (~43 bits
stronger). This means that for a 200% increase in CPU time
you get a 76% increase in effective key length.

Double DES is only marginally stronger than single-DES,
despite having twice the number of rounds. The reason that
security doesn't increase linearly with the number of rounds
is of course that the user keys of each DES are isolated so
that one key affects only one DES. This opens up for the
possibility of the meet-in-the-middle attack.

If the two 56-bit keys and key schedules were replaced by
one 112-bit key and one key schedule that produces keys
for all of the 32 rounds, we should get an increase in
security proportional to the size of the key, i.e. a 100%
increase in effective key length for a 100% increase in CPU
time.

The possible problem I see with this is that one would have
to be very careful in designing the new key schedule, so as
not to destroy the security inherent in DES. I suspect that
the answer to my initial question is that people don't dare
touch _anything_ in DES for fear of inadvertently reducing
the security, but we're only talking about the key schedule
here. Btw, has the reasoning behind the DES key schedule
ever been made public?

Apart from that, how easy would it be (given a specific key
schedule), to determine whether the extended DES is a group
or not?

If an extended DES were standardized (probably de facto), we
could also get rid of the pointless and performance reducing
Input and Final Permutations.

-- 
Thor Kristoffersen   -   Oslo, Norway   -   thork@ifi.uio.no
