Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!news2.uunet.ca!ionews.io.org!r-node.io.org!nobody
From: ajstokes@r-node.io.org (Allan Stokes)
Newsgroups: comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Please explain the problem with clipper
Date: 11 Jan 1994 17:46:38 -0500
Organization: Internex Online (io.org) Data: 416-363-3783  Voice: 416-363-8676
Lines: 56
Distribution: inet
Message-ID: <2gva8e$2e9@r-node.io.org>
References: <2g6n5c$4gc@agate.berkeley.edu> <strnlghtCJ196x.9y1@netcom.com> <RLK.94Jan2224657@merlin.think.com> <strnlghtCJ1G2L.J7M@netcom.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: r-node.io.org
Xref: msuinfo comp.org.eff.talk:25093 alt.privacy.clipper:2026 sci.crypt:22780

I have to weigh in with Robert Krawitz that release management is a 
real bugaboo.  The comments from David Sternlight and Steve Pope on this 
issue are surprising.

To begin with, any regulation amounts to a constraint.  The big, painful 
lesson of the last thirty years of software experience is that the 
difficulty of creating a large system goes up on some horrible 
function of the number of constraints.  In a good design, every 
bit of complexity owes its reason for existance to the satisfaction 
of some kind of a constraint.  So clearly, government regulations 
that place restrictions on how software can be distributed and what 
it may contain are going to have a cost of compliance.

Leaving aside any questions about the merit of the regulations, what 
might the impact of these regulations be on the organisations that 
must comply?  To my mind, this question has as much to do with the 
theory of corporate organisation as software development proficiency.

Robert Krawitz and I must share some similar experiences.  In my 
experience, small companies with a strong focus on innovation are 
often miserable at version control.  I've never been part of any 
company that felt good about this, but there are certain kinds 
of work collaboration where stable releases are the sacrificial lamb.
That doesn't mean the products aren't any good, or that the programmers 
are less talented than average.

David Sternlight has worked at IBM.  It shows.  I can't imagine what it 
would be like to work at a hierarchical organisation with an entire 
team devoted to the release process, with so much manpower to spare 
that someone runs the install script at least once on every platform 
supported, in every installation configuration.

Software systems developed at universities are often the exception 
to the rule.  Not every company has the same cross-section of skill 
sets found at MIT.  There might be some organisations that excell 
at release configuration.  That should be viewed as a competitive 
advantage.  The more regulations, the larger this advantage becomes.

The government can be quite careless about assessing the cost of 
compliance of the regulations it enacts.  The usual method is to 
wait and see how many people yell.  Large companies have the time 
and resources to play this game, small companies usually don't.

The message I'm getting from David Sternlight and Steve Pope is that 
it would be no bad thing if the software industry only included 
those companies that can efficiently comply with this kind of 
government regulation.  I disagree.

A final comment for Steve Pope.  Contributions to this debate are 
constructions made or the sake of communication.  In this thread you 
make a lot out of "logical" flaws.  If experience could be encoded 
easily as logical propositions, experience wouldn't be worth much, 
would it?

Allan Stokes <ajstokes@io.org>

