Path: msuinfo!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!warwick!news.coventry.ac.uk!news.coventry.ac.uk!not-for-mail
From: lsg001@cck.coventry.ac.uk (G WILSON)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security
Subject: Re: Legal status of crypto signatures
Date: 10 Jan 1994 21:27:58 -0000
Organization: Coventry University
Lines: 83
Message-ID: <2gsh8u$8mc@cc_sysk.coventry.ac.uk>
References: <memo.218671@cix.compulink.co.uk> <1994Jan7.151042.21407@infodev.cam.ac.uk>
NNTP-Posting-Host: cc_sysk.coventry.ac.uk
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:22791 alt.security:14158

>In article <memo.218671@cix.compulink.co.uk>, nikb@cix.compulink.co.uk 
>(Nick Barron) writes:
>
>|> Can anyone enlighten me on the legal status of crypto signatures in the UK?



** During the last year of my LL.B. Law Degree,one of my options was Shipping / 
   International Trade Law. For this particular module I opted to write a 
   thesis looking at the use of Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) in
   International Trade Law. In particular, I looked at the specific 
   problems associated with moving away from conventional paper bills of
   lading (the paper document evidencing ownership of the goods) to an
   electronic alternative.

   In 1992, the law relating to international trade was updated with the 
   introduction of a new Carriage of Goods By Sea Act. Apart from altering
   the operation of conventioanl bills of lading, the act provided the 
   Secretary of State for Transport to make regulations regarding the use
   and operation of electronic bills of lading. 

   However, this has created a catch-22 situation. To date, the department
   has been reluctant to make any regulations as electronic bills are not
   in any real use in the UK. Meanwhile, shippers are reluctant to introduce
   electronic bills of lading until the department provides a statutory 
   framework in the form of regulations under the Carriage of Goods by
   Sea Act.

   One of the major problems that I found with electronic signatures in 
   relation to electronic bills of lading was authenticity. There are
   no prohibitions placed on electronic verification. However, there are
   several problems with electronic signatures which a plaintiff would 
   have to demonstrate to the court do not make the electronic or documentary
   evidence unreliable under the control of the Civil Evidence Act.
   For example, is the electronic signature secure ?
   In other words, could the defendant argue that although an electronic
   signature looks like their particular signature, could the plaintiff
   rebut any possible presumption that it was, in fact, forged ? 

   In your case, other issues spring to mind. For example, authorisation of 
   the appenditure of the signature.

   At the end of my project, I proposed the introduction of a draft act which 
   I wrote that would allow traders to use electronic signatures for
   international trade via electronic bills of lading. I called the act
   The EDI Bills of Lading Act (1993). It was 42 sections long.

   On the whole, I think that without my proposed changes it would be 
   possible for someone to use electronic signatures for conventional trade
   but not for international trade revolving around electronic bills of 
   lading.

   Nevertheless, however, by using an electronic signature for conventional 
   trade you would be entering unchartered waters. I could not give you 
   definite advice on how a court would view the electronic signature as
   there are no reported cases to date. From a financial point of view,
   by moving to an electronic signature, you could end up with an expensive
   litigation on your hands, either as the Plaintiff or the Defendant 
   if the issue of the electronic signature were called into question.

   For the moment at least, I would suggest that it would be wise to remain
   with the conventional paper signature system, at least and until one or
   two cases come before the civil courts and the judiciary have a 
   chance to formulate an opinion and provide some evidential guidance
   on the subject.

   If, however, you feel the real need to move towards an electronic signature
   then it might be worth drawing up an agreement with the other party to 
   the signature specifying how the signatory system will operate, that
   both parties accept the validity of the signature and take account of
   any contingencies that may arise through the use of the electronic 
   signature in relation to your particular business or line of trade.


   Regards


   Graham Wilson
 
-- 
         *      Graham Wilson      *  lsg001@cck.coventry.ac.uk  *
                                         Coventry  University    

