Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!honeydew.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!das-news!tlb
From: tlb@chardonnay.harvard.edu (Trevor Blackwell)
Subject: Re: RUMOUR: RSA has been broken! Comments please!
Message-ID: <TLB.94Jan13132133@chardonnay.harvard.edu>
Sender: usenet@das.harvard.edu (Network News)
Organization: Aiken Computation Lab, Harvard University
Date: Thu, 13 Jan 1994 18:21:33 GMT
Lines: 59


warlord@MIT.EDU (Derek Atkins) writes:
> So, no, I do not think that I am being quick with "no security through
> obscurity".  If your system depends on the secrecy of the algorithm
> (in general, I don't count the secret key in this), then someone who
> finds that algorithm has a better chance of breaking it...  And people
> know how to reverse-engineer things like that!

Remember, RSA does not define a complete security system, only the
kernel of one.  Any of the flaws in, for instance, older versions of
PEM have been due to aspects of the protocol other than the RSA kernel.
Just knowing how to do (M^E mod N) doesn't mean that my box can
exchange information securely with your box. Having friends who
actually built a public key security system, I can assure you that
generating primes, finding E and D, and doing (M^{E|D} mod N), is
about 1% of the work.

Clearly, no protocol can be completely obscure, because at least some
people have to invent it and implement it. I think the criticisms of
this approach are:

   1) those chosen people are more capable of breaking it than others
   2) the rest of us have to take the word of those few that even
      knowing how it works, it's extremely hard to break

(2) is particularily hard to swallow, because one has to ask, "Well,
why not just let us see it, then?"

Also, the 20 people that 'know' GSM encryption are just the ones on
the standards body. There must be some fan-out from there: at least
some GSM implementors must know how it works. (I doubt any of those 20
actually went and laid out the gates in silicon, for instance).  Even
someone with access to the lithography masks would know _more_ about
how to break it than I do.


What all this security through obscurity does is change cryptography
from a mathematically rigorous discipline where anyone can assure
himself that the encryption is sound (with a few easy-to-swallow
assumptions like factoring is hard), to a game played by guys in
trenchcoats with briefcases handcuffed to their wrists, carrying
around the secret plans.  Since the NSA owns a lot of briefcases,
handcuffs, and trenchcoats, and employs few mathematicians, it is
perhaps not surprising that they want to turn it into a game they're
good at.

Suppose it turned out that GSM encryption was a lot like DSA, such
that the NSA knew something about some master number in the algorithm
that nobody else knew. It would be
   1. infeasible for any bad-guy to break it (good)
   2. still infeasible for someone who reverse engineered the chips (good)
   3. very feasible for the NSA to break it (depends on your politics)
   4. not known that #3 is true. (definitely bad)

--
--
Trevor Blackwell         tlb@das.harvard.edu          (617) 495-8912
(info and words of wit in my .plan)
Disavowal:  This message contains supposition based on hearsay.
