Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!pavo.csi.cam.ac.uk!rja14
From: rja14@cl.cam.ac.uk (Ross Anderson)
Subject: Re: Legal status of crypto signatures
Message-ID: <1994Jan15.130659.13389@infodev.cam.ac.uk>
Sender: news@infodev.cam.ac.uk (USENET news)
Nntp-Posting-Host: nene.cl.cam.ac.uk
Organization: U of Cambridge Computer Lab, UK
References: <memo.218671@cix.compulink.co.uk> <1994Jan7.151042.21407@infodev.cam.ac.uk> <2gsh8u$8mc@cc_sysk.coventry.ac.uk> <CJJA2s.A3s@acsu.buffalo.edu> <758412289snz@ubik.demon.co.uk> <jktaberCJJuJM.CMA@netcom.com>
Date: Sat, 15 Jan 1994 13:06:59 GMT
Lines: 84
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:22888 alt.security:14202

In article <jktaberCJJuJM.CMA@netcom.com>, jktaber@netcom.com (John K. Taber) 
writes:

|> I don't see proving the goodness of crypto signatures as such a problem.
|> Wouldn't the court rely on expert testimony? 

Yes, and up till recently there was only ever an expert on one side (usually 
the side with the money, such as the government or the bank). This is not
suprising when you find out that in the UK the Legal Aid fund takes about
three years to pay expert witness fees.

Nonetheless, a number of recent UK cases about disputed cash machine 
withdrawals, attempted electronic fraud and so on have had experts on both
sides, and so for the first time have started to test crypto evidence. The 
results have not been those that the banks expected.

For example, in the recent case R v Lock and North in Bristol, two men were
accused of conspiring to defraud the National Westminster Bank. They had
planned to forge cards and use them in cash machines, but were caught when
one of their recruits went to the police.

Their defence was that what they had been trying to do was impossible, and
they were supported in this by Donald Davies. I was the expert for the
prosecution, and we won. Lock and North are now awaiting sentence.

|> Crypto evidence has been used to send criminals to jail.  I refer to 
|> Elizebeth Friedman's expert testimony on Government decrypts of booze
|> smugglers during Prohibition.

It's also been used to convict innocent people.

(1)	The Thomson twins were convicted of murder after an ATM phantom
	withdrawal put them near the scene of the crime. The police were so
	impressed with this technical evidence that they suppressed a witness
	statement which said that the two murderers were one white and one 
	black. When this came out recently, the twins were freed on appeal.

(2)	Janet Bagwell was wrongly convicted of stealing 40 pounds from her 
	father after the Midland Bank allocated her father's account number to 
	someone else as well. She's since disappeared - there should be an 
	article on her case in the `Sunday Times' next week which we hope will 
	help trace her.

(3)	I recently got two people off theft charges. In each of these cases,
	which were quite separate, someone had a phantom withdrawal, was told
	by the bank `our systems are infallible - you must have been ripped
	off by your family or friends', and went to the police. In each case
	one of their workmates was charged after some flimsy circumstantial
	evidence was found. In both cases, we challenged the bank's technical
	evidence and demanded to see system logs, audit trails, tally rolls,
	security policies, insurance inspectors' reports and so on. In each 
	case the bank could not substantiate its initial claim that a 
	withdrawal had taken place, and the prosecution collapsed.

(4)	There are more cases of this kind in the pipeline. I have argued to
	both the police and the Director of Public Prosecutions that bank 
	evidence about electronic transactions is unreliable, and that bank
	claims of system infallibility should be treated as a conspiracy to
	defraud, or even as a conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. The 
	authorities are not interested. They do not want to know.

I have another case of this kind where a person who is clearly innocent has 
been prosecuted as a result of false testimony from a UK financial institution
about computer generated evidence. This is going to trial next month, so I 
can't divulge any details; but it is by far the most shocking case yet and will
absoutely scandalise public opinion.

For these reasons, I don't approve of `infallible' systems. I don't use digital
signatures and would not advise anybody else to do so. 

Highly reliable systems have their place in avionics, defence and so on. 
However, the banking industry does not use cryptography to build secure systems, 
but to avoid liability. Sometimes this has the effect of shifting the liability
on to their insurers; but most of the time it is we the poor suffering public
who lose out as a result.

As Diffie and Hellman pointed out years ago, encryption and signature are dual
operations in a number of senses. Here is a new one: encryption may be bad for
the state, but signature could be catastrophic for the individual. 


Ross


