Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!torn!nott!cunews!freenet.carleton.ca!FreeNet.Carleton.CA!af017
From: af017@FreeNet.Carleton.CA (David R. Smith)
Subject: rigging Lotto draws
Message-ID: <CJr3G0.51p@freenet.carleton.ca>
Sender: news@freenet.carleton.ca
Organization: The National Capital FreeNet, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
Date: Mon, 17 Jan 1994 01:43:12 GMT
Lines: 39



seems to me in this computer age of Lotto among other things,
that choosing a set of numbers is a risky business.
First of all, I am assuming, that anything that can be rigged,
will be rigged, this is often what is called 90's ethics.
Thus given a large computer to generate "random" set of
six numbers from 1 to 50 as is the case in most LOtto
systems, how long, in microseconds, will it take the
computer, if so surreptitiously programmed, to check
all numbers already chosen, between the time that buying
tickets is cut off and the winning numbers chosen, usually
at least several hours?
Thus the prime motive, having a buddy out there somewhere,
a distant connection who will win the big pot, then split
it with some of the Lotto system people (or others perhaps
in org. crime), will be instructed to choose the winning
numbers ahead of time.
Thus there are several issues here:
can the same computer check all chosen numbers before
"randomly" choosing the winning set?
Who is really keeping an eye on these people who
run the Lottos?
Wouldn't be at least safer, though not foolproof, to
ban chosen numbers by ticket buyers and allow only
random quick picks so that a particular buyer could
not, in collusion, pick a winning set ahead of time
and then split with however few if any other winners
happen to come up with the same number?
Finally, how difficult is it really for the Lotto
computer to simply pick a number which it is 
instructed to pick rather than a random number?
Obviously if such rigging is going on, the Lotto
people would have to be clever enough not to 
have too many suspicious winners, or too many
wins, which latter works to advantage, since a
really big pot would have a great incentive for
rigging.
David Smith
