Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!netcomsv!netcom.com!straits
From: straits@netcom.com (Stewart C. Strait)
Subject: Re: Xor encryption
Message-ID: <straitsCK0tn9.E7p@netcom.com>
Organization: NETCOM On-line Communication Services (408 241-9760 guest)
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]
References: <1994Jan12.143159.20474@ericsson.se> <straitsCJx4BM.B79@netcom.com> <2ho89p$o5i@mips.arb-phys.uni-dortmund.de>
Date: Sat, 22 Jan 1994 07:47:32 GMT
Lines: 34

Wilhelm B. Kloke (wb@arb-phys.uni-dortmund.de) wrote:
: What about applying XOR encryption only to compressed files?
: You could even combine the compression process with simple XOR-ing to
: encrypt. Any magic numbers have to be stripped, of course. They can
: easily be reconstructed before uncompressing. I assume that most attacks
: on this are only possible having some plaintext, as a good compressor
: should make the file like white noise, statistically.

I suspect you need an impractically good compressor to make the file
enough like white noise for the periodic XOR cipher to resist
statistical attack.  Any feature of the compressed text that is not
like white noise and involves bytes in the same column is a problem.
A particularly bad weakness is that if two strings, after compression,
are a multiple of the period apart, then they need not be identical
to let you break in.  All you need to know is the XOR of one string
with the other--the periodic encryption will preserve this.

Of course, if the compressed text really looks white none of this
happens except by coincidence, but the compressed text can't
be truly white unless the compression algorithm knows the true 
probability of any text at all.  It should (?) be secure enough
if the deviations from white behavior are undiscoverable by the attacker,
but typical compression algorithms might be too well known.

Certainly compressing first, IF magic numbers are removed, makes the
analysis much harder, but I still wouldn't pick XOR for the next step
even if I had to pick something very elementary.  I feel that periodic
XOR is more suited to being broken by computer than other elementary
ciphers, and that in some cases it should be regarded as a simple
cipher that is further weakened by 'trapdoor'-like tricks for breaking
it.
-- 
Stewart C. Strait
straits@netcom.com
