Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.security
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!news.kei.com!news.oc.com!utacfd.uta.edu!rwsys!hammy!gordon
From: gordon@sneaky.lonestar.org (Gordon Burditt)
Subject: Re: Legal status of crypto signatures
References: <memo.218671@cix.compulink.co.uk> <CJJA2s.A3s@acsu.buffalo.edu> <758412289snz@ubik.demon.co.uk> <tknarrCJtEru.AI3@netcom.com>
Organization: /usr/lib/news/organi[sz]ation
Date: Sun, 23 Jan 1994 07:00:47 GMT
Message-ID: <CK2M5v.Dx@sneaky.lonestar.org>
Lines: 90
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:23075 alt.security:14316

>>Suppose I have a 'signed' document from a transatlantic correspondent
>>called Bill, signed with (say) PGP.  For the signature on that document
>>to be recognised I would likely need to prove the signature was generated
>>with Bill's private key, and that only Bill could have done so.
>
>Easy enough. Bill has a copy of his own public key on his keyring. 
  There should
>be no problem in getting disclosure of it in a court case. If the message
>validates using that key, Bill sent it. Since the public key was in 
  this case
>obtained directly from Bill's keyring, it would be highly unlikely 
  that Bill
>would be keeping a key with his own user id on it but generated by someone
>else.

Ok, Bill supplies his public key.  The signature matches.  Bill 
admits the key is his, since he had it signed by a company that demands
fingerprints, genetic samples, retinal scans, buttprints, many forms 
of identification, and witnesses as an identification service.  His
signature can bind his employer to very large contracts, so this kind
of identification is necessary and routine for corporate officers.  
There isn't much point in denying it.  The ID company will provide
copies of the ID submitted when the key was signed if needed.

Bill still claims he didn't sign it.  We don't know whether he's telling
the truth, or trying to back out of the deal which was a little too 
good for the other guy.  He claims (1) his ex-wife or kids might have 
gotten the key and seen him key in the passphrase, or guessed it, 
(2) as a manager, he has several disgruntled employees or ex-employees 
who might want revenge, (most managers do) and could have gotten the 
key while he was exercising at the company health club, and could have
gotten the passphrase when he signed his lunch tab or numerous company
documents, (3) the guy claiming the contract is good forged it so he 
could get product at giveaway prices, (4) the NSA is doing it as revenge 
for his company asking for crypto export licenses, (5) the Mafia did it 
to get a lot of money, or (6) the Japanese did it to put his company out 
of business.  Oh, yes, there was that breakin last month where we thought 
they only got some office equipment.  

"If the message validates using that key, Bill sent it".  This amounts
to a claim that the crypto and associated procedures are infallible.
Nothing is infallible, especially in a world where crypto signatures
control money and one routinely signs things many times a day.
I haven't even gotten into the possibilities for rigged computers
that capture private keys.

See comp.risks for a discussion of the "phantom withdrawl" problem
with ATM machines in the UK.  Banks claim the system is infallible,
and therefore they aren't liable - the customer must have done it,
since the card and a valid PIN were used.  Some of the customers have 
fairly good evidence they didn't.  The little guy gets screwed, and 
sometimes falsely convicted, when an "infallible system" isn't.  The 
fallible part isn't necessarily the cryptosystem itself.

You have your key on a disk or smart card.  It has a passphrase you
have to key in to use it.  You don't realize the risk and you choose
a passphrase that may not be the most secure.  Now, how do you
protect your key?  Keep it in your wallet when not using it.
You use it a lot, to pay tolls and bus fares, to buy lunch at the 
company cafeteria, even to give your kids allowances.  Fine.  
What do you do with the key while you're taking a shower?
(Is there anyone else paranoid enough about getting locked out of
his college dorm who always took a room key into the shower with
him?  There were enough practical jokes, roommates leaving and
locking the door unexpectedly, doors blowing shut, and dummy doing 
it to himself, that someone getting locked out with only a towel 
wasn't uncommon.)  Crypto keys may not be water-and-soap-proof.

You have to sleep sometime.  Where do you keep the key?  (You
can't leave it at the office - you need it to pay tolls on the way
home.)  Remember that the person you're sleeping with or other 
household members may be out to steal it.  After all, you can buy 
most anything with it, up to the limit of your bank account + credit 
limit.  Ex-spouses were presumably trusted at the time of marriage, 
but the relationship can turn nasty (ask Mr. Bobbitt).  The system 
is infallible, so anything an ex-spouse buys must have been with 
the knowledge and consent of the key holder, right?  Not only
do you have to worry about individual members of your household
going after the key, you have to worry about conspiracies of several
of them.  Your spouse and your best friend might have a better 
relationship than you thought.

You're on a business trip and staying in a hotel.  Where do you
keep the key?  In a hotel safe?  Hotel employees then have a chance
to copy it, and you'll sign the bill to pay it when you leave, so
they have a shot at the passphrase.  Under your pillow?  Maybe, but
I hope you don't sleep too soundly, and that you're sleeping alone.

					Gordon L. Burditt
					sneaky.lonestar.org!gordon
