Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!news.kei.com!news.oc.com!utacfd.uta.edu!rwsys!hammy!gordon
From: gordon@sneaky.lonestar.org (Gordon Burditt)
Subject: Re: rigging Lotto draws
References: <CJr3G0.51p@freenet.carleton.ca>
Organization: /usr/lib/news/organi[sz]ation
Date: Sat, 22 Jan 1994 01:47:30 GMT
Message-ID: <CK0CzL.EF@sneaky.lonestar.org>
Lines: 127

>seems to me in this computer age of Lotto among other things,
>that choosing a set of numbers is a risky business.
>First of all, I am assuming, that anything that can be rigged,
>will be rigged, this is often what is called 90's ethics.

In Texas, they use a device with numbered balls and
compressed air or something to pick the winning numbers.
They also show it in operation on television for the drawings.
Since you only have one Lotto drawing every few days, the
old mechanical approach still works fairly well.   Sure,
you could weight the balls or something, but this gives
you an edge, not a sure-fire shot to win.  I believe there
is a BBS with past lottery drawings on it - maybe it's even
run by the lottery.  They indicate which set of balls was used 
for which drawing, and someone ran some statistics on it.  
I don't recall any spectacular conclusions.

Another set of "random" numbers used in the system is "Quick Pick",
in which you ask the machine to generate a set of numbers instead
of choosing them for your ticket.  An interesting way to cheat
that would take a while to pay off would be to rig "Quick Pick"
to never generate a few particular numbers, and always pick those.
Your chances of winning are not increased, but your chances
of being the only person to share a pot might be significantly
increased, depending on how popular "Quick Pick" is.  

You can, to some extent, do this yourself, honestly, even, by
figuring that people are bad random number generators, and they'll 
pick dates, women's measurements, etc. so you pick the low-choice
numbers, in the hopes of winning and getting a jackpot all to yourself.

If you want to do this dishonestly, one way is to look at the
number-picking habits of people in the last lottery by peeking at
the database after the drawing, and use the info for the next one.
It's hard to say what crime you'd be charged with if you got caught,
though.

>Thus given a large computer to generate "random" set of
>six numbers from 1 to 50 as is the case in most LOtto
>systems, how long, in microseconds, will it take the
>computer, if so surreptitiously programmed, to check
>all numbers already chosen, between the time that buying
>tickets is cut off and the winning numbers chosen, usually
>at least several hours?

If things are done properly, the computer (and I don't really
think you should use a computer) choosing the numbers
will not have access to any of the data on which numbers
have been chosen.  Ideally, you don't even have any employees
of the same company dealing with the number-choosing computer
and the tickets-bought computer.  This is why accounting
firms often carry out selection of random numbers.

>Thus the prime motive, having a buddy out there somewhere,
>a distant connection who will win the big pot, then split
>it with some of the Lotto system people (or others perhaps
>in org. crime), will be instructed to choose the winning
>numbers ahead of time.
>Thus there are several issues here:
>can the same computer check all chosen numbers before
>"randomly" choosing the winning set?

Speed shouldn't enter into it.  This information shouldn't
be on the same computer until AFTER the drawing is made.

>Who is really keeping an eye on these people who
>run the Lottos?

Every drawing I have seen (Texas) mentions "the accounting firm of Cooper 
and Lybrand", which I've probably spelled wrong, supervising the drawing.
I suspect their employees are not allowed to buy lottery tickets.

>Wouldn't be at least safer, though not foolproof, to
>ban chosen numbers by ticket buyers and allow only
>random quick picks so that a particular buyer could
>not, in collusion, pick a winning set ahead of time
>and then split with however few if any other winners
>happen to come up with the same number?

In a news documentary on the (Texas, specifically) lottery, 
it was mentioned that the company running the lottery didn't
like the idea of even having "quick pick", because they want
it to be YOUR fault that you picked "bad numbers", not the fault 
of the little computers in the stores that generate "quick pick" 
numbers for you if you want.  They want you to keep buying tickets.
It's one of their sleazy marketing tricks.

>Finally, how difficult is it really for the Lotto
>computer to simply pick a number which it is 
>instructed to pick rather than a random number?

I don't know, but I advise against using a computer
for this purpose.  Computers aren't designed to behave
randomly.  If a seed for a random number is chosen 
early, someone can run the number-picking program
ahead of time and choose those numbers.

>Obviously if such rigging is going on, the Lotto
>people would have to be clever enough not to 
>have too many suspicious winners, or too many
>wins, which latter works to advantage, since a
>really big pot would have a great incentive for
>rigging.

A question to consider:  Suppose the lottery offered a
"Super Quick Pick", which costs double the usual price of
a ticket and has the same payoff, but which selects
the numbers randomly FROM THE NUMBERS WITH THE LEAST
NUMBER OF PEOPLE SELECTING THEM SO FAR.  Assuming you're
going to play the lottery, should you use this?  It's 
obvious that if you do, you want to be the last person
buying a ticket, and you certainly shouldn't spend extra 
money on "Super Quick Pick" when sales first open.

I predict it would cause massive lines around the deadline
for the drawing, especially when the jackpot is large.
If everyone goes for "Super Quick Pick", your chances of
having a number combination to yourself is excellent until
ticket sales exceed about 11 billion per drawing.

(This would introduce all sorts of technical problems, essentially
having to serialize all purchases of tickets in one queue through
a master database of sales so far, and greatly increase the number 
of opportunities to cheat).

					Gordon L. Burditt
					sneaky.lonestar.org!gordon
