Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!destroyer!news.itd.umich.edu!rubin
From: rubin@citi.umich.edu (Aviel David Rubin)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Crypto conferences - as promised
Date: 24 Jan 1994 15:54:52 GMT
Organization: Center for Information Technology Intergration, University of Michigan
Lines: 1348
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <2i0r0c$rj2@terminator.rs.itd.umich.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: barnone.citi.umich.edu
Cc: afy2f@larch.cs.virginia.edu,rubin@citi.umich.edu

First of all, many thanks to Ulf Carlsen who provided me with
a lot of the material here.

Following is a list of conferences followed by some mostly outdated
calls for papers. I am working on getting more current ones.

If you have any information to add to this, please e-mail me, and
I'll incorporate it in my updated list.

Avi Rubin




CONFERENCES and WORKSHOPS:

The IFIP TC11 International Conference on Information Security
      (8th IFIP/Sec'92, Singapore, May 1992)
      (9th IFIP/Sec'93, Dutch Carribean, March 1993)
EUROCRYPT (April/May)
The IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (Oakland) (May)
The Computer Foundation Workshop (Franconia) (June)
CRYPTO (August)
SAFECOMP (Poznan 1993) (October)
The ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security
      (1st at Fairfax, VA, 3-5 Nov 1993)
ASIACRYPT (November)
ESORICS European Symposium on Research in Computer Science
      (November, Bi-annually)
ACSAC Annual Computer Security Applications Conference (December)
European Conference on Information Systems, Security, Control and Audit.
      (7th in 1992)

JOURNALS:
Security Reviews (Ross Anderson, Editor)
Computers & Security (Monthly)
Journal of Computer Security
Cryptologia (Quarterly)
Journal of Cryptology (3 issues/year) (87 USD + 12 DM postage)
Journal of the ACM
IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications
ACM Transactions on Computing Systems
The Mathematical Intelligencer


==========================================================================

ESORICS-94                                         	 CALL FOR PAPERS

        European Symposium on Research in Computer Security
         Brighton, United Kingdom, November 7th-9th, 1994
	 
Organised by IMA in cooperation with AFCET (creator), BCS Security
Special Interest Group, and CERT-ONERA

AIM AND TOPICS: The aim of this symposium is to further the progress
of research in computer security by bringing together researchers in
this area, by promoting the exchange of ideas with system developers
and by encouraging links with researchers in areas related to computer
science, information theory and artificial intelligence.

Papers are solicited in the following areas:

- - Theoretical Foundations of Security-

security models and specifications, contribution of formal logic and
information theory, formal development techniques

- - Secure Computer Systems-

operating system security, network security, security management,
virus and worms, contribution of artificial intelligence, contribution
of new architectures and new technologies

- - Security in Data and Knowledge Bases-

- - Security in other Applications-

transaction systems, process control, real time, distributed
applications

- - Cryptography Applications-

authentication, key management, signature

- - Security Verification and Evaluation-

formal methods, measure and evaluation of risks, measure and
evaluation of security, criteria, protocol verification

- - Software Development Environments for Security-

- - Operation of Secure Systems-

management, intrusion detection

- - Security versus other requirements

Security and costs, performances, dependability, safety, reliability,...

All application fields are welcome (medical, industrial, financial,
copyright,...) as long as the proposals remain in the scope of
research in computer security.

This list is not exhaustive. Research papers, position papers and panel
proposals will be welcomed.


SUBMISSIONS: Six copies of papers or panel proposals should be submitted
to the program chair by March 25th, 1994 at the following address:

			 Gerard Eizenberg
                      CERT-ONERA   ESORICS 94
                        2, avenue E. Belin			
                            B.P. 4025	
                       31055 Toulouse Cedex
                              France			    

The texts must be submitted in English. Papers should be limited to
6000 words, full page figures being counted as 300 words.  Each paper
must include a short abstract and a list of keywords indicating
subject classification. Notification of acceptance will be sent by 
June 24th, 1994, and camera-ready copies will be due on
September 1st, 1994.

Panel proposals should include title, proposed chair, tentative panelists,
a 2 or 3 paragraphs description of the subject, format of the presentation,
and rationale for the panel.

For further information and/or copy of the advance program when available,
send E-mail to Dieter Gollmann at the next address:
                       dieter@dcs.rhbnc.ac.uk
or write to:
   		          Pamela Irving
                        Conference Officer
        The Institute of Mathematics and Its Applications      
                         16 Nelson Steet 
                         Southend-on-Sea
                          ESSEX SS1 1EF
                         United  Kingdom    

IMPORTANT DATES:
Submission deadline: March 25th, 1994
Acceptance notification: June 24th, 1994
Camera-ready copy due: September 1st, 1994


GENERAL CHAIR: Roger Needham


PROGRAM COMMITTEE 
CHAIR: Gerard Eizenberg (CERT-ONERA, France)
VICE-CHAIR: Elisa Bertino (Universita di Milano, Italy)
Bruno d'Ausbourg (CERT-ONERA, France)
Thomas Beth (Universitat Karlsruhe, Germany)
Joachim Biskup (Universitat Hildesheim, Germany) 
Peter Bottomley (DRA, United Kingdom)
Yves Deswarte (LAAS-CNRS & INRIA, France)
Klaus Dittrich (Universitaet Zuerich, Switzerland)
Simon Foley (University College, Ireland)
Dieter Gollmann (University of London, United Kingdom)
Franz-Peter Heider (GEI, Germany) 
Jeremy Jacob (University of York, United Kingdom)
Sushil Jajodia (George Mason University, USA)
Helmut Kurth (IABG, Germany) 
Teresa Lunt (SRI, USA)
Giancarlo Martella (Universita di Milano, Italy)
Catherine Meadows (NRL, USA)
Jonathan Millen (MITRE, USA)
Emilio Montolivo (Fondazione Ugo Bordoni, Italy)
Roger Needham (University of Cambridge, United Kingdom)
Andreas Pfitzmann (Technische Universitaet Dresden, Germany)
Jean-Jacques Quisquater (UCL, Belgium)
Einar Snekkenes (NDRE, Norway)

ORGANISING COMMITTEE

Dieter Gollmann (University of London, United Kingdom)
Pamela Irving (IMA, United Kingdom)
==========================================================================



                           CALL FOR PAPERS
                IEEE COMPUTER SECURITY FOUNDATIONS WORKSHOP VII
                          June 14-16, 1994
                     Franconia, New Hampshire
                Sponsored by the IEEE Computer Society

The purpose of this workshop is to bring together researchers in
computer science to examine foundational issues in computer security.
We are interested both in papers that describe new results in the
theories of computer security and in papers, panels, and working group
exercises that explore open questions and raise fundamental concerns
about current theories of security.  Possible topics include, but are
not limited to:

access control                  distributed systems security
authentication                  formal methods for security
covert channels                 information flow
data and system integrity       secure protocols
database security               security models

We are also interested in examining the interactions and trade-offs
between computer security requirements and other system requirements
such as availability, dependability, and real-time, and in exploring
foundational security issues in emerging areas such as ubiquitous
computing, multimedia, and computer supported cooperative work.  The
proceedings are published by the IEEE Computer Society and will be
available at the workshop.  Selected papers will be invited for
publication in the Journal of Computer Security.

Instructions for Participants: Workshop attendance will be by
invitation only and limited to thirty-five participants.  Prospective
participants should send five copies of a paper (limit 7500 words),
proposal for panel discussion or working group exercise to Li Gong,
Program Chair, at the address below.  Please provide email addresses
and telephone numbers (voice and fax) for all authors and clearly
identify the contact author.

IMPORTANT DATES: Author's submission:        February 10, 1994
                 Notification of acceptance: March 11, 1994
                 Camera-ready final papers:  April 11, 1994

Program Committee

Simon Foley,		Univ. Col., Cork, Ireland
Virgil Gligor,		U of Maryland, USA
Simon Lam,			U of Texas, Austin, USA
Stewart Lee,		U of Toronto, Canada
John McLean,		Naval Research Lab, USA
Catherine Meadows,	Naval Research Lab, USA
Michael Merritt,	AT&T Bell Labs, USA
Jose Meseguer,		SRI International, USA
Jonathan Millen,	MITRE, USA
Chris Mitchell,		U of London, RHNBC, UK
Robert Morris,		DoD, USA
Ravi Sandhu,		George Mason U, USA

For further information contact:

General Chair             Program Chair           Publications Chair
Ravi S. Sandhu            Li Gong                 Joshua Guttman
ISSE Department           SRI International       The MITRE Corporation
George Mason University   Computer Science Lab    Burlington Road
Fairfax, VA 22030-4444    333 Ravenswood Avenue   Bedford, MA 01730
+1 703-993-1659           Menlo Park, CA 94025    +1 617-271-2654
sandhu@sitevax.gmu.edu    +1 415-859-3232         guttman@linus.mitre.org
                          gong@csl.sri.com




			       CALL FOR PAPERS
		      NEW SECURITY PARADIGMS II WORKSHOP
			       August 2-5, 1993
			 Little Compton, Rhode Island

Shifts in paradigms disrupt the status quo, destroy outdated ideas, and open
the way to new possibilities.  This workshop will explore new paradigms for
computer security, trusted system integration, and intercomputer networking
security.

 To apply to this creative and constructive workshop, submit four copies of
either a research paper or a 5-10 page position paper to David Bailey at
Galaxy Computer Services, 3419 La Sala del Oeste NE, Albuquerque NM 87111 by
APRIL 9, 1993.  Authors will be notified of acceptance status by June 11,
1993.  Proceedings will be published in a book by ACM.  Selected papers may be
presented at the NCSC conference in September 1993.

 The workshop fee will be approximately $450.  A few scolarships are available
for Ph.D. students.  The fee includes room, meals, and workshop materials.

          Sponsors:  ACM SIGSAC  DoD
          Chair:  Hilary Hosmer, Data Security Inc.
          Committee:
                  David Bell, Dennis Branstad, John Dobson, Grace Hammonds,
                  Steven LaFountain, John McLean, Gunther Pernul, Olin Sibert,
                  Marvin Schaefer, Catherine Meadows, Bretret Micahels,
                  Victoria Ashby, Stepehn Cha, Ravi Sandhu, Eric Leighninger
                  David Bailey, Program Committe Chair.


Copies of proceedings from this workshop, as well as the previous workshop,
will be available from ACM when published.
--
[W]:The Aerospace Corp. M1/055 * POB 92957 * LA, CA 90009-2957 * 310/336-8228
[Email]:faigin@aerospace.aero.org              [Vmail]:310/336-5454 Box#13149
		    "And as they say, the rest is compost"



                         CALL FOR PAPERS 

          Fachtagung Sicherheit in Informationssystemen
                             SIS'94

                  Zuerich, 10. und 11. Maerz 1994

               in Zusammenarbeit mit der SI und OCG

Sicherheit in Informationssystemen bedeutet primaer das Zusammenspiel
zwischen organisatorischen und technischen Massnahmen. Ausgehend vom 
Sicherheitsmanagement muss die Verfuegbarkeit von Ressourcen, die 
Robustheit gegen Uebertragungsfehler und technisch bedingten Stoerungen 
sowie die Zuverlaessigkeit verschiedener Komponenten einer verteilten 
Anwendung, wie auch der Schutz von Programmen, Dateien und Hardware 
vor Verfaelschung und Missbrauch durch unberechtigten Zugang und 
unzulaessigen Zugriff sichergestellt werden. Sicherheitskonzepte und 
Anwendung werden durch die verstaerkte Vernetzung von Systemen 
immer wichtiger.

Das Ziel der Fachtagung Sicherheit in Informationssystemen SIS'94 ist 
die Bildung eines deutschsprachigen Forums, um Wissenschaftler und 
Anwender aus dem Gebiet der Sicherheit zusammen zu bringen und den 
Austausch von Ideen sowie die weitere Forschung und Entwicklung in 
diesem Bereich zu foerdern. Zusaetzlich zu einem attraktiven Vortrags-
programm sind verschiedene Produktpraesentationen sowie ein halbtaegiges 
Tutorium vorgesehen.

Es werden Beitraege u.a. zu folgenden Themenbereichen erbeten:
   *  Sicherheitsmanagement
   *  Risiko-Management
   *  Sicherheitspolitik
   *  Sicherheitsanforderungen & -mechanismen fuer 
      verteilte Applikationen
   *  Architektur sicherer Systeme
   *  Netzwerksicherheit
   *  Sicherheitsmodelle, Sicherheitskriterien
      und Qualitaetskontrolle
   *  Sicherheitsverfahren und -methoden
   *  Kryptologie und Kryptoanalyse
   *  Computerkriminalitaet
   *  Rechtliche Aspekte
   *  Datenschutz
   *  Wirtschaftlichkeit von Sicherheitsmassnahmen

Die vollstaendigen Beitraege sollen maximal 15 Seiten umfassen und in 
Deutsch abgefasst sein. Vier Kopien sind bis spaetestens 13. November 1993 
einzureichen an: Prof. Dr. K. Bauknecht, Universitaet Zuerich, 
Institut fuer Informatik, Winterthurerstr. 190, CH-8057 Zuerich

Organisation: Prof. Dr. Kurt Bauknecht und Dr. Stephanie Schmidt, 
              Universitaet Zuerich, IFI

Programmkommitee: K. Bauknecht (Universitaet Zuerich); K. Brunnstein 
(Universitaet Hamburg); A. Buellesbach (debis Systemhaus AG, Stuttgart); 
M. Caflisch (Crypto AG, Zug); W. Dohr (Volksanwaltschaft, Wien); H. Dommer 
(Sulzer Informatik AG, Winterthur); R. Grimm (GMD-Darmstadt); U. Maurer 
(ETH-Zuerich); G. Pernul (Universitaet Wien); H. Pohl (Fachhochschule 
Bochhold); I. Schaumueller-Bichl (Universitaet Klagenfurt); S. Schmidt 
(Universitaet Zuerich); Chr. Strauss (Universitaet Wien); B. Teufel 
(ART Informationssysteme GmbH, Ueberlingen).

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Anmeldung fuer die Fachtagung SIS'94

Ich bin an der SIS'94 interessiert      Bitte senden Sie das Tagungs-
als:                                    programm an:
   Vortragender                           Name:
   Teilnehmer                             Adresse:
   Aussteller                             

Bitte diesen Abschnitt abtrennen und zuruecksenden an:
Dr. S. Schmidt, Universitaet Zuerich, Institut fuer Informatik,
Winterthurerstr. 190, CH-8057 Zuerich, Telefon: +41-1-257-4311; 
Telefax: +41-1-363-0035; E-Mail: schmidt@ifi.unizh.ch   


               SAFECOMP'93

The 12th International Conference on Computer
Safety, Reliability and Security

     Poznan-Kiekrz, Poland

      27-29 October 1993

Sponsor
European Workshop on Industrial Computer Systems   
Technical Committee 7
(EWICS TC7)  

 Co-Sponsored by 

IFIP Technical Committee 5 WG 5.4.  

Franco-Polish School of New Information and  
Communication Technologies  

Polish Council for Scientific Research  

European Research Office, USARDSG-UK  

OCG, the Austrian Computer Society  

Organized by:
Franco-Polish School of New Information and Communication  Technologies



   ABOUT THE CONFERENCE



SAFECOMP is an annual event which reviews the state of the art, experiences
and new trends in the areas of computer safety, reliability and security.
 SAFECOMP was initiated by EWICS TC7 (European Workshop on Industrial
 Computer Systems, Technical Committee 7) in 1979 and since then has been
 held in Germany (Stuttgart, Fulda),  UK (Cambridge, Manchester, Gatwick),
 USA (West Lafayette), Italy (Como), France (Sarlat), Austria (Vienna),
 Norway (Trondheim) and Switzerland (Zurich). The conference focuses on
 critical computer applications. It is intended to form a platform for  technology
 transfer  between academia, industry and research institutions. SAFECOMP
 is a one-stream conference which, typically, attracts up to 150 participants.

This year's SAFECOMP will be held in Poznan , Poland - the first time the
 conference will take place in Central/Eastern Europe.

International Program Committee 

J. Gorski 			PL   (Chairman and Editor)  
R. E. Bloomfield  		UK   
J. Lindeberg         		N  
S. Bologna 			I       
S. L-Hansen  			DK 
W. Cellary   			PL
M.J.P. van der Meulen		NL   
G. Cleland 			UK
G. Rabe   			D     
B. Cronhjort 			S 
F. Redmill 			UK 
P. Daniel 			UK 
M. Rodd  			UK
B. K. Daniels  			UK 
B. Runge			DK 
G. Dahl  			N
G. H. Schildt			A 
W. Ehrenberger 			D
E. Schoitsch			A 
H. Frey				CH  
I. Smith			UK
K. Kanoun			F 
A. Toola			SF
F. Koornneef 			NL 
W. M. Turski 			PL 
H. Krawczyk 			PL
U. Voges 			D  
R. Lauber 			D   
W. Zamojski 			PL  


National Organizing Committee
J. Gorski  (Chairman),  
T. Doroszewski, L. Gimzicka, K. Ratajczak,  E. Roslanowski


ADVANCE PROGRAM
Tuesday, October 26
  17.00 	Registration
  19.00 	Dinner
  21.00 	Get Together

Wednesday, October 27
8.00 		Registration
9.00 		Opening Address by IPC Chairman J. Gorski (PL)
9.15 		Address by EWICS TC7 Chairman R.E. Bloomfield (UK)
9.30 	Invited presentation by T. Anderson(UK): Safety - status and 
		perspectives
10.10  	coffee break
10.30 	FORMAL METHODS AND MODELS
	C. Bernardeschi, A. Bondavalli, L. Simoncini (I): Data Flow Control Systems:
 		an Example of Safety Validation
	G. Bruns, S. Anderson (UK): Validating Safety Models with Fault Trees
	Z. Liu (UK), J. Nordahl, E. V. Sorensen (DK):  Composition and Refinement of
 		Probabilistic Real Time Systems 
12.00 	lunch
13.30 	APPLICATIONS
	Invited presentation by C. D. Wilkinson (USA):  Reinstrumentation of nuclear
 		power plants                              
	W.A. Halang (D) J. Scheepstra (NL): PLC-implementation of emergency 
		shutdown systems
	G. A. Mutone (USA), M. Rothfelder (D): The fast cost effective design and 
		concurrent certification of the safe computer for a real time train
 		control application
15.00 	coffee break
15.20 	SAFETY ASSESSMENT
	M.J.P. van der Meulen (NL), T. Stalhane (N), B. Cole (UK): A Programmable
 		Electronic System Analysis Technique
	C. J. Goring  (UK): Safety Assessment - the critical systems suppliers view
	T. Stalhane, J. F. Lindeberg (N): Automatic Train Control - The Assessment
 		and the Experience
16.50 	coffee break
17.10 	SAFETY ANALYSIS
	G. Cooke, S. Dhanjal, R. Finks  (UK): Safety analysis of
clinical laboratory 
		systems
	M. Chudleigh, J. Clare (UK): The benefits of SUSI, Safety analysis of User 
		System Interaction,
18.10 	before Panel drinks
19.00 	Panel Session: Technology Transfer between  Academia and 
		Industry  moderator F. Redmill  (UK) 
21.00  	barbecue

Thursday, October 28
9.00 	Invited presentation by J-C. Laprie (F): Dependability - from 
		concepts to limits
9.40		VERIFICATION & VALIDATION
	N. J. Ward (UK): The Rigorous Retrospective Static Analysis of Sizewell 'B'
 		Primary Protection System Software
	B. Stamm (CH) : A Safety Critical Computer System in a Railway Application
10.40 	coffee break
11.00 	TESTING
	J. M. Voas (USA): Assessing Ultra-Reliability Via Testing and Software 
		Testability Analysis
	I. M. Galkin (Bielarus): A knowledge-based Approach to program testing and
 		analysis
12.00 	lunch
13.30  	DEPENDABLE SOFTWARE
	A. Saeed, R. de Lemos, T. Anderson (UK): Robust Requirements 	
		Specifications for Safety-Critical Systems
	W. Kuhn, E. Schoitsch (A): Dependability of Scaleable, Distributed Systems:
 		Communication Strategies for redundant Processes
	J. Rainer (A): Software validation with CASE-TOOLS
15.00 	coffee break
15.20 	RELIABILITY  ISSUES
	M. Kaaniche, K. Kanoun (F): Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis of the 
		Failure Data of two Software Switching Systems
	R. E. Seviora (Canada): Real-Time Detection of Failures of Reactive Systems
	H. Krawczyk, S. Al-Karaawy (PL): Reliability and Safety Analysis of 	
		Hierarchical Voting Schemes
16.50 	coffee break
17.10 	LANGUAGES
	G. Sen, J. Brummer (D): Designing a high-level language for safety systems
	P. Molinaro, O. H. Roux (F): Oreste: a reliable reactive real time language
20.00 	Conference Dinner

Friday, October 29
9.00 	Invited presentation by C. Landwehr (USA): How Far Can You 
		Trust a Computer?
9.40 		SECURITY
	Ludovic Me (F): Security audit trail analysis using genetic algorithms
	Reinhard Posch (A): MRSA - a new public key encription method
	Zhang Chang-Bin, Wu Jong-Ming (China): Multi-Category Multilevel Database
 		Security Model
11.10 	coffee break
11.30 	REACTIVE SYSTEMS
	H. Fierz, H. Muller, S. Netos (CH): CIP - a formal method for
the development 
		of reactive systems
	M. Colnaric (Slovenia), W.A. Halang (D): Exception handling and
predictability
 		in hard real-time systems
	M.B. Schronen, M.R. Inggs (South Africa): Development of a fail-safe data 
		transmission system for use in life-critical applications
13.00 	Closing Address by Safecomp'93 IPC Chairman J. Gorski (PL)
		Safecomp'94 information by IPC Chairman V. Maggioli (USA)
13.30 	lunch


DISCLAIMER
No rights can be derived from this preliminary time schedule, by anyone
 involved in the Conference. The Organizing Committee reserves the right to
 modify the schedule.

GENERAL INFORMATION

DATE
27-29 October 1993

LOCATION
Osrodek  Szkoleniowo-Wypoczynkowy Wojsk Lotniczych "ZEGLARZ"
ul. Nad Jeziorem 1
62-091 Poznan-Kiekrz, Poland
tel. (48) (61) 49 60 11

ABOUT THE PLACE
Poznan is the capital of the Wielkopolska Province which is the cradle of the
 Polish nation. Situated halfway between Warsaw and Berlin, the town is a
 significant center of industry, science, culture and commerce. Poznaq is
 among the biggest academic centers in Poland. The city is known for its
 cultural institutions like drama theatres, Philharmonic Hall with a famous boys'
 choir,  the Opera House and many museums. The Cathedral, which has its
 roots 10 centuries ago, houses the tombs of Poland's first kings. On the Old
 Market Square one can admire the Renaissance Town Hall, acclaimed as one
 of the most beautiful town halls in Central Europe. There are many interesting
 castles, palaces and  archeological sites to be visited in the immediate vicinity
 of Poznan .

The Conference and Training Center "Zeglarz" is located in Kiekrz, 10 km 
 from the city centre of Poznaq. This  famous touristic area, with large forest,
 fresh air, a brillant lake and silence, creats an unforgettable microclimate.
 "Zeglarz" is well prepared to host conferences. Its main room contains 200
 comfortable chairs and hotel rooms are fully furnished, each with WC, a
 shower and TV set. Meals are served in the hotel restaurant. 

CONFERENCE SECRETARIAT  
All correspondence shall be addressed to:

SAFECOMP'93   
Franco-Polish School  of New Information and  Communication Technologies    
ul. Mansfelda 4 
60--854 Poznan  6, P.O. Box 31     
Poland  
tel  + (48) (61) 48 34 06 		fax  + (48) (61) 48 25 82
e-mail: safecomp@efp.poz.edu.pl

LANGUAGE
The language of the Conference is English. No simultaneous translation will be
 provided.

CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS
SAFECOMP'93 proceedings are being published by Springer Verlag and will
 be available on 27 October.

REGISTRATION
The organization of the Conference is based on advance registration.
 Nevertheless every effort will be made to register those persons whishing to
 register immediately before or during the Conference. Please register by
 returning the attached Registration Form to the Conference Secretariat (see
 the address above). Please use one form for each participant.
All participants are requested to check in at the Registration Desk. The Desk,
 located at the reception of the "Zeglarz" hotel, will be opened during the
 Conference from 5:00 pm on 26 October 1993.

REGISTRATION FEES
The fee is given in German Marks in order to avoid problems with local
 inflation:


Registration and Payment

Participant
before September 15, 1993	770 DM
after September 15, 1993	830 DM

Accompanying person
before September 15, 1993	170 DM
after September 15, 1993	210 DM


The fee covers the following items:
	admission to the conference
	the conference proceedings
	refreshments during coffee breaks
	accomodation in the "Zeglarz" hotel with all meals starting with  the 
		dinner on Octobet 26th through  lunch on October 29th
	Get Together on the evening of October 26th 
	the Conference Dinner on October 28th

The accompanying person fee covers:
	accomodation in the "Zeglarz" hotel, 26-29 October (breakfasts
 	included). 
	NOTE: Because of limited capacity of the "Zeglarz" hotel only one 
			accompanying person per participant can be accomodated
 			provided he/she will share the same room (all rooms in the
 			hotel 	are doubles). 
	Get Together on the evening of  October 26th 
	the Conference Dinner on October 28th

Additionally, an open air barbecue is considered for the night of October 27th.


CANCELLATION AND REFUNDS
Written requests for cancellation and refund of registration fees should be
 addressed to the Conference Secretariat.  A deduction of DM 150  for
 administrative costs will be made for cancellations received before 5 October
 1993. 50% will be deducted for cancellations received before 20 October
 1993 and after 5 October 1993. No refund can be made for any cancellation
 received after that date.

ACCOMMODATION
Accomodation and full board are included in the conference fee. Participants
 will be accomodated in private rooms in the "Zeglarz" Hotel. Each room has
 its own bathroom with WC and shower and is equipped with TV. The meals
 will be served in the "Zeglarz" restaurant. For those who  come by car a
 secure parking place will be provided. 

TRANSPORTATION
Poznaq is accessible by various means of transportation. The city has its local
 airport with several international flights. There are also daily local air
 connections with Warszawa (Warsaw), the capital of Poland and the main
 airport of the country.  Poznan can be accessed from all main cities of Poland 
 by express train  connections or by highways. It is linked by Inter City trains
 with Berlin and Paris. From Scandinavia, one of possible ways is to come by
 ferry to Gdansk or Swinoujscie and then by train to Poznan. From Germany
 the city can be easily accessed by car.
On 26 and 27 October there will be some local arrangements at the Poznan
 airport and central railway station to help delegates to get to the conference
 site.
Detailed transportation information will be send after registration.


CONFERENCE DINNER

The cost of the Conference Dinner is covered by the registration fee. It will
 take place outside the city of Poznan. It is planned to have a concert of a
 famous boys' choir called "Nightingales of Poznan" an open air
barbecue is considered for the night of October 27th.
"  after the dinner.

ACCOMPANYING PERSONS
Because of a limited capacity of the "Zeglarz" hotel only one accompanying
 person per participant can be accomodated provided he/she will share the
 same room (all rooms in the hotel are doubles). The fee shown in the
 Registration Form relates to such situation. If there are more accompanying
 persons of a given participant, please contact the conference organizers and
 an accomodation will be arranged in one of a city hotels. The price will be
 given separately. 
The accompanying persons program will be arranged depending on
 registration. Among the possibilities are  city sideseeing tours and excursions
 and cultural activities organized for extra cost.

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
- ------------------

REGISTRATION FORM

SAFECOMP'93
Poznaq/Kiekrz, Poland
27-29 October 1993

Mr.       Mrs.
Family name:	..............................................................
First name:	
..............................................................
Title:		
..............................................................
Company/Organization:	.....................................................
			
.....................................................

Mailing address:
..............................................................
........................................................................
....................
........................................................................
....................
Postal code and city:	.....................................................
Country:	
...............................................................

Telephone:	
...............................................................
Fax:		
...............................................................
e-mail:		...............................................................


REGISTRATION FEE		
(the fee is given and should be paid  in German Marks - DM) 	

Participant:
	BEFORE 1 September 1993			AFTER 1 September 1993
	DM  770						DM   830

Accompanying person (NOTE: he/she will be accomodated with a double
 room together with the participant): 
	BEFORE 1 September 1993			AFTER 1 September 1993
	DM  170						DM  210

Name of accompanying person:
........................................................................
................................

Total to be  remitted    DM .............................................

REMITTANCE (tick one)

  paid by bank transfer via SWIFT  WBK PPL PP (preferably) to WBK   I  O/Poznan, 
    to the credit of account  no.  356325-2394-151-4  of the Franco Polish School of
    NICT in Poznan

 cheque enclosed of DM......................................(payable to
   Safecomp'93, Franco Polish School of NICT  in  Poznan)
 
 will pay in cash during registration (sorry, no credit cards accepted during
    registration on site)



Please indicate clearly your name, address and SAFECOMP'93 on all
 cheques, money orders, etc.

Date:................................
Signature:.........................................................

Please send a competed form to:

SAFECOMP'93   
Franco-Polish School  of New Information and  Communication Technologies    
ul. Mansfelda 4 
60--854 Poznan  6, P.O. Box 31
Poland  

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
- ------------------



		      CALL FOR PAPERS AND PARTICIPATION

			Ninth Annual Computer Security
			   Applications Conference

			       Sponsored by the
		   Application Computer Security Associates
			     In Cooperation With
				  ACM/SIGSAC
			     IEEE TCSP (Pending)

			    December 6 - 10, 1993
		      Orlando Marriott Internation Drive
			       Orlando, Florida

The Conference
   The Information Age is upon us, along with its attendant needs for
protecting private, proprietary, sensitive, classified, and critical
information.  The computer has created a universal addiction to
information in the military, government, and private sectors.  The
result is a proliferation of computers, computer networks, databases,
and applications empowered to make decisions ranging from the mundane
to life threatening or life preserving.
    Some of the computer security challenges that the community is faced
with include:
	* To design architectures capable of protecting the
	  sensitivity and integrity of information, and of assuring
	  that expected services are available when needed.

	* To design safety-critical systems such that their software and
	  hardware are not hazardous.

	* To develop methods of assuring that computer systems
	  accorded trust are worthy of that trust.

	* To build systems of systems out of components that have
	  been deemed trustworthy.

	* To build applications on evaluated trusted systems without
	  compromising the inherent trust.

	* To apply to the civil and private sectors trusted systems
	  technologies designed for military applications.

	* To extend computer security technology to specifically
	  address the needs of the civil and private sectors.

	* To develop international standards for computer security
  	  technology.

     This conference will attempt to address these challenges. It will
explore a broad range of technology applications with security and safety
concerns through the use of technical papers, discussion panels, and
tutorials.

     Technical papers, panels and tutorials that address the application of
computer security and safety technologies in the civil, defense, and
commercial environments are solicited.  Selected papers will be those
that present examples of in-place or attempted solutions to these
problems in real applications; lessons learned; original research,
analyses and approaches for defining the computer security issues and
problems.  Papers that present descriptions of secure systems in use
or under development, or papers presenting general strategy, or
methodologies for analyzing the scope and nature of integrated
computer security issues; and potential solutions are of particular
interest.  Papers written by students that are selected for presentation
will also be judged for a Best Student Paper Award.  A prize of $500,
plus expenses to attend the conference, will be awarded for the selected
best student paper (contact the Student Paper Award Chairperson for details,
but submit your paper to the Tehcnical Program Chairperson).

     Panels of interest include those that present alternative/controversial
viewpoints and/or those that encourage "lively" discussion of relevant
issues. Panels that are simply a collection of unrefereed papers will not
be selected.

INSTRUCTIONS TO AUTHORS:

     Send five copies of your paper or panel proposal to Ann Marmor-Squires,
Technical Program Chairman, at the address given below. Since we provide blind
refereeing, we ask that you put names and affiliations of authors on a
separate cover page only.  Substantially identical papers that have
been previously published or are under consideration for publication
elsewhere should not be submitted.  Panel proposals should be a
minimum of one page that describes the panel theme and appropriateness
of the panel for this conference, as well as identifies panel
partipant and their respective viewpoints.  Send one copy of your
tutorial proposal to Daniel Faigin at the address given below.  It
should consist of one- to two- apargraph abstract of the tutorial, an
initial outline of the material to be presented, and an indication of
the desired tutorial length (full day or half day).  Electronic
submission of tutorial proposals is preferred.

Completed papers as well as proposals for panels and tutorials must
be received by May 18, 1993.  Authors will be required to certify prior
to June 19, 1993, that any and all necessary clearances for public release
have been obtained; that the author or qualified representative will be
represented at the conference to deliver the paper, and that the paper has
not been accepted elsewhere.  Authors will be notified of acceptance by
July 31, 1993.  Camera ready copies are due not later than September 18, 1993.
Material should be sent to:

Ann Marmor-Squires		Daniel Faigin
Technical Program Chair		Tutorial Program Chair
TRW Systems Division		The Aerospace Corporation
1 Federal Systems Park Dr.	P.O. Box 92957, MS M1/055
Fairfax, VA  22033		Los Angeles, CA  90009-2957
(703) 803-5503			(310) 336-8228
marmor@charm.isi.edu		faigin@aero.org

		Ravi Sandhu
		Student Paper Award
		George Mason Univ.
		ISSE Dept.
		Fairfax,  VA 22030-4444
		(703) 993-1659
		sandhu@gmuvax2.gmu.edu

Areas of Interest Include:

Trusted System Architectures
Software Safety Analysis and Design
Current and Future Trusted Systems Technology
Encryption Applications (e.g., Digital Signature)
Application of Formal Assurance MEthods
Risk/Hazard Assessments
Security Policy and Management Issues
Trusted DBMSs, Operating Systems and Networks
Open Systems and Composted Systems
Electronic Document Interchange
Certification, Evaluation and Accreditation

Additional Information
     For more information or to receive future mailings, please contact
the following at:

Dr. Ronald Gove			Diana Akers
Conference Chairman		Publicity Chair
Booz-Allen & Hamilton		The MITRE Corporation
4330 East-West Highway		7525 Colshire Dr.
Bethesda, MD  20814		McLean, VA  22102
(301) 951-2395			(703) 883-5907
gover@jmb.ads.com		akers@mitre.org
--
[W]:The Aerospace Corp. M1/055 * POB 92957 * LA, CA 90009-2957 * 310/336-8228
[Email]:faigin@aerospace.aero.org              [Vmail]:310/336-5454 Box#13149
		    "And as they say, the rest is compost"



                           CALL FOR PAPERS
   
1994 IEEE Symposium on                              May 16--18, 1994
Research in Security and Privacy                    Oakland, California
  
                             Sponsored by
  IEEE Computer Society Technical Committee on Security and Privacy
                         in cooperation with
    The International Association for Cryptologic Research (IACR)

The Symposium on Security and Privacy is the premier forum for the
presentation of developments in computer security, and for bringing
together researchers and practitioners in the field.  The focus of
this, the 15th symposium in the series, will include technical aspects
of security and privacy as they arise in commercial and industrial
applications, as well in government and military systems.  The
symposium will address advances in the theory, design, implementation,
analysis, and application of secure computer systems, and in the
integration and reconciliation of security and privacy with other
critical system properties such as reliability and safety.  Topics in
which papers and panel session proposals are invited include, but are
not limited to, the following:

Secure systems    Privacy Issues  Access controls  Security verification
Network security  Policy modeling Information flow Authentication
Database security Data integrity  Protocols        Viruses and worms
Auditing and intrusion detection  Commercial and industrial security
Security and other critical system properties      Distributed systems

INSTRUCTIONS TO AUTHORS:

Send six copies of your paper and/or proposal for a panel session to
John Rushby, Program Co-Chair, at the address given below.  Papers and
panel proposals must be received by November 15, 1993.  Papers, which
should include an abstract, must not exceed 7500 words.  The names and
affiliations of the authors should appear on a separate cover page
only, as a ``blind'' refereeing process is used.  Authors must certify
prior to December 31, 1993 that any and all necessary clearances
for publication have been obtained.

Papers must report original work that has not been published
previously, and is not under consideration for publication elsewhere.
Abstracts, overlength papers, electronic submissions, late
submissions, and papers that cannot be published in the proceedings
will be rejected without review.  Authors will be notified of
acceptance by February 1, 1994.  Camera-ready copies are due not later
than March 15, 1994.

Panel proposals should describe, in two pages or less, the objective
of the panel and the topic(s) to be addressed.  Names and addresses of
potential panelists (with position abstracts if possible) and of
the moderator should also be included.

The Symposium will also include informal poster sessions where
preliminary or speculative material, and descriptions or
demonstrations of software, may be presented.  Send one copy of your
poster session paper to Cristi Garvey, at the address given below, by
January 31, 1994, together with certification that any and all
necessary clearances for presentation have been obtained.

PROGRAM COMMITTEE
   
  Ross Anderson, Cambridge University, UK       
  Tom Berson, Anagram Laboratories, USA 
  Leslie Chalmers, Bank of California, USA      
  Oliver Costich, CSIS, George Mason University, USA 
  Frederic Cuppens, ONERA/CERT, France  
  James Gray, University of Science & Technology, Hong Kong 
  Sushil Jajodia, George Mason University, USA  
  Dale Johnson, MITRE Corporation, USA 
  Steve Kent, BBN, USA  
  Sue Landauer, Trusted Information Systems, USA 
  Teresa Lunt, SRI International, USA   
  John McHugh, Portland State University, USA 
  Doug McIlroy, AT&T Bell Labs, USA     
  John McLean, Naval Research Laboratory, USA 
  Jon Millen, MITRE Corporation, USA    
  Sylvan Pinsky, National Security Agency, USA 
  Michael Reiter, AT&T Bell Labs, USA   
  Karen Sollins, MIT Laboratory for Computer Science, USA 
  Stuart Stubblebine, University of Southern California, USA    
  Gene Tsudik, IBM Research Laboratory, Switzerland 
  Yacov Yacobi, Bellcore, USA   
  Raphael Yahalom, Hebrew University, Israel 
   
For further information concerning the symposium, contact:

  Cristi Garvey, General Chair       John Rushby, Program Co-Chair
  TRW, MS R2-2044                     SRI International, EL254
  One Space Park                     333 Ravenswood Avenue
  Redondo Beach, CA 90278, USA       Menlo Park, CA 94025, USA
  Tel: +1 (310) 812-0566             Tel: +1 (415) 859-5456
  FAX: +1 (310) 812-4310             FAX: +1 (415) 859-2844
  Garvey@zoo.sdd.trw.com             rushby@csl.sri.com
   
  Carl Landwehr, Vice Chair          Catherine Meadows, Program Co-Chair
  Naval Research Lab., Code 5542     Naval Research Laboratory, Code 5543
  4555 Overlook Ave., SW             4555 Overlook Ave., SW
  Washington DC 20375, USA           Washington DC 20375, USA
  Tel: +1 (202) 404-8888             Tel: +1 (202) 767-3490
  FAX: +1 (202) 404-7942             FAX: +1 (202) 404-7942
  landwehr@itd.nrl.navy.mil          meadows@itd.nrl.navy.mil
   
  Frederic Cuppens, European Contact James Gray III, Asia/Pacific Contact
  ONERA/CERT                         Department of Computer Science
  2 Avenue E. Belin                 Hong Kong Univ. of Science & Technology
  31400 Toulouse, France             Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong
  Tel: +33 61 55 70 75               +852 358-7012
  FAX: +33 61 55 71 32               +852 358-1477
  cuppens@tls-cs.cert.fr             gray@cs.ust.hk



                             CALL FOR PAPERS
                    The Internet Society Symposium on
                 Network and Distributed System Security

        3-4 February 1994, Catamaran Hotel, San Diego, California

The symposium will bring together people who are building software and
hardware to provide network or distributed system security services.
The symposium is intended for those interested in practical aspects of
network and distributed system security, rather than in theory.  Symposium
proceedings will be published by the Internet Society.  Topics for the
symposium include, but are not limited to, the following:

*  Design and implementation of services--access control, authentication,
   availability, confidentiality, integrity, and non-repudiation
   --including criteria for placing services at particular protocol layers.

*  Design and implementation of security mechanisms and support
   services--encipherment and key management systems, authorization
   and audit systems, and intrusion detection systems.

*  Requirements and architectures for distributed applications and
   network functions--message handling, file transport, remote
   file access, directories, time synchronization, interactive
   sessions, remote data base management and access, routing, voice and
   video multicast and conferencing, news groups, network management,
   boot services, mobile computing, and remote I/O.

*  Special issues and problems in security architecture, such as
   -- very large systems like the international Internet, and
   -- high-speed systems like the gigabit testbeds now being built.

*  Interplay between security goals and other goals--efficiency,
   reliability, interoperability, resource sharing, and low cost.

GENERAL CHAIR:
   Dan Nessett, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory

PROGRAM CHAIRS:
   Russ Housley, Xerox Special Information Systems
   Rob Shirey, The MITRE Corporation

PROGRAM COMMITTEE:
   Dave Balenson, Trusted Information Systems
   Tom Berson, Anagram Laboratories
   Matt Bishop, Dartmouth College
   Ed Cain, U.S. Defense Information Systems Agency
   Jim Ellis, CERT Coordination Center
   Steve Kent, Bolt, Beranek and Newman
   John Linn, Geer Zolot Associates
   Clifford Neuman, Information Sciences Institute
   Michael Roe, Cambridge University
   Rob Rosenthal, U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology
   Jeff Schiller, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
   Ravi Sandhu, George Mason University
   Peter Yee, U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration

SUBMISSIONS:  The  committee seeks both original technical papers and
proposals for panel discussions on technical and other topics of general
interest.  Technical papers should be 10-20 pages in length.  Panels
should include three or four speakers.  A panel proposal must name the
panel chair, include a one-page topic introduction authored by the chair,
and also include one-page position summaries authored by each speaker
Both the technical papers and the panel papers will appear in the
proceedings.

Submissions must be made by 16 August 1993.  Submissions should be made
via electronic mail to

                   1994symposium@smiley.mitre.org.

Submissions may be in either of two formats:  ASCII or PostScript.  If
the committee is unable to read a PostScript submission, it will be
returned and ASCII requested.  Therefore, PostScript submissions should
arrive well before 16 August.  If electronic submission is absolutely
impossible, submissions should be sent via postal mail to

                   Robert W. Shirey, Mail Stop Z202
                   The MITRE Corporation
                   McLean, Virginia  22102-3481  USA

All submissions must include both an Internet electronic mail address and
a postal address.  Each submission will be acknowledged through the
medium by which it is received.  If acknowledgment is not received within
seven days, please contact either Rob Shirey <Shirey@MITRE.org> or
Russ Housley <Housley.McLean_CSD@xerox.com>, or telephone Mana Weigand at
MITRE in Mclean, 703-883-5397. 

Authors and panelists will be notified of acceptance by 15 October 1993.
Instructions for preparing camera-ready copy for the proceedings will be
postal mailed at that time.  The camera-ready copy must be received by
15 November 1993.



				CALL FOR PAPERS
				   COMPASS '94
9th Annual IEEE Confererence				June 27-30, 1994
on COMPuter ASSurance					Gaithersburg, MD

The purpose of this conference is to bring together researchers,
developers, and evaluators who work on problems related to specifying,
building, and certifying high-assurance computer systems.  What
distinguishes COMPASS from similar conferences is its emphasis on
bridging the gap between research and practice.  Researchers are
provided an opportunity to present results, new theories, and new
technologies to both other researchers and practitioners who can put
them to practice.  They can also learn from practitioners of new
research problem domains and of problems encountered in building real
systems.  Practitioners have an opportunity to share lessons learned,
to learn of new research, and to influence future research.

Papers should present advances in the theory, design, implementation,
evaluation, or application of high-assurance systems, or report on
experiments, evaluations, and open problems in the use of new
technologies for computer assurance.  Special consideration will be
given to presentations (either single papers or paper pairs) by
practitioners and researchers who have worked on the same problem.
There will also be a tools fair.  Papers, panel session proposals,
tutorial proposals, and tools fair proposals are solicited in the
following areas:

   Software Reliability     Software Safety       Computer Security
   Formal Methods           Tools                 Process Models
   Real-Time Systems        Networks              Embedded Systems
   V&V Practices            Certification         Standards

INSTRUCTIONS TO AUTHORS:
Send five copies of your paper, panel session proposal, tutorial
proposal, or tools fair proposal to John McLean, Program Chair, at the
address given below. Abstracts, electronic submissions, late
submissions, and papers that cannot be published in the proceedings
will not be accepted. Papers submitted from outside North America
should be sent via overnight courier service.

Papers must be received by January 15, 1994 and must not exceed 7500
words.  Authors are responsible for obtaining prior to acceptance any
and all necessary clearances for publication.  Authors will be notified
of acceptance by March 11, 1994. Camera-ready copies are due not later
than April 22, 1994.

Papers that use technology presented at a previous COMPASS conference
are eligible for a special award.  Papers of exceptional quality and
appropriate subject matter are eligible for inclusion in a special
issue of the Journal of High Integrity Systems or the Journal of
Computer Security.

Limited financial assistance will be available for student authors.


                             PROGRAM COMMITTEE

Paul Ammann, George Mason Univ. (USA)      John Marciniak, CTA (USA)
George Dinolt, Loral (USA)                 John McDermid, York Univ (UK)
Jan Filsinger, Booz-Allen Hamilton (USA)   Jon Millen, Mitre (USA)
Virgil Gligor, Univ. of Maryland (USA)	   John McHugh, Portland State U. (USA)
Li Gong, SRI (USA)		           David Parnas, McMaster Univ. (Canada)
Connie Heitmeyer, Naval Res. Lab. (USA)	   John Rushby, SRI (USA)
Jeremy Jacob, York Univ. (UK)		   Ravi Sandhu, George Mason Univ. (USA)
Carl Landwehr, Naval Res. Lab. (USA)	   Jeannette Wing, Carn. Mellon U. (USA)
Teresa Lunt, SRI (USA)			   

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SYMPOSIUM, CONTACT:

Jan Filsinger, General Co-Chair          John McLean, Program Chair
Booz-Allen Hamilton, Inc                 Naval Research Laboratory
8283 Greensboro Dr.                      Code 5543
McLean, VA 22102                         Washington, DC 20375
Tel: (703) 902-5302                      Tel: (202)767-3852
Fax: (703) 902-3131			 Fax: (202) 404-7942
filsing@itd.nrl.navy.mil                 mclean@itd.nrl.navy.mil




                              C R Y P T O  ' 9 4

                August 21-25, 1994, Santa Barbara, California

                               CALL FOR PAPERS
                               ---------------
GENERAL INFORMATION
Crypto '94, the Fourteenth Annual CRYPTO Conference, is organized by the
International Association for Cryptologic Research (IACR), in cooperation with
the IEEE Computer Society Technical Committee on Security and Privacy, and the
Computer Science Department of the University of California.  Original papers
are solicited on all aspects of cryptology.

TOPICS OF INTEREST
The topics of interest include but are not limited too:

  -) Applications                         -) Implementation Aspects
  -) Authentication                       -) Information Theoretical Aspects
  -) Combinatorial Aspects                -) Key Distribution               
  -) Computational Complexity Aspects     -) Number Theoretic Aspects
  -) Computer Security Aspects		  -) Practical Aspects              
  -) Conventional Cryptosystems           -) Protocols                      
  -) Cryptanalysis                        -) Pseudo Randomness
  -) Cryptographic Hash Functions         -) Public Key    
  -) Digital Signatures                   -) Secret Sharing
  -) Electronic Money                     -) Standards
  -) Foundations and Theory               -) Zero-knowledge

INSTRUCTIONS FOR AUTHORS
Send a cover letter, one title page and 15 copies of an extended abstract to
be received by March 4, 1994, (or postmarked by February 23, 1994 and sent via
airmail) to the Program Chair at the address given below.  The title page
should contain the title, the name of the authors, their postal and E-MAIL
addresses and the abstract.  The extended abstract should start with the title
and the abstract, but should be ANONYMOUS.  This should be followed by a
succinct statement appropriate for a non-specialist reader specifying the
subject addressed, its background, the main achievements, and their
significance to cryptology.  Technical details directed to specialist should
then follow.  A limit of 10 singlespaced pages of 12pt type (not counting the
bibliography and clearly marked appendices) is placed on all submissions.
Since referees are not required to read the appendices, the paper should be
intelligible without them.

Abstracts that have been or will be submitted in parallel to other conferences
or workshops that have proceedings are NOT eligible for submission to Crypto.
The authors must state compliance to this rule in their cover letter.  A LaTeX
style file and an example of a cover letter will be available after January 1,
by sending e-mail to statuscrypto94@csd4.csd.uwm.edu

CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS
Crypto '94 will be the first Crypto conference where proceedings will be
available at the meeting. These proceedings will be published in the Springer
Verlag's Lecture Notes in Computer Science.  Clear instructions about the
final copy will be sent to authors of accepted papers.  The final copies of
the accepted papers will be due on June 8, 1994.  Final papers arriving too
late will be REMOVED FROM THE MAIN PROGRAM. Authors of accepted papers must
guarantee that their paper will be presented at the conference.

A limited number of stipends are available to those unable to obtain funding
to attend the conference.  Students whose papers are accepted and who will
present the paper themselves are encouraged to apply if such assistance is
needed.  Requests for stipends should be addresses to the general chair.
 
IMPORTANT DATES
Submission receipt deadline:   March  4 (or postmarked airmail February 23)
Notification sent to authors:  April 25, 1994
Final copies due:              June   8, 1994

PROGRAM COMMITTEE
Yvo Desmedt, Program Chair, University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee, USA
Tom Berson, Anagram Laboratories, USA
Don Coppersmith, IBM T. J. Watson Research Center, USA
Donald Davies, United Kingdom
Shimon Even, Technion, Israel
Amos Fiat, Tel Aviv University, Israel
Russell Impagliazzo, University of California San Diego, USA
Ingemar Ingemarsson, University of Linkoping, Sweden
Mitsuru Matsui, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Japan
Alfred Menezes, Auburn University, USA
Andrew Odlyzko, AT&T Bell Laboratories, USA
Jennifer Seberry, University of Wollongong, Australia
Ben Smeets, Lund University, Sweden
Moti Yung, IBM T. J. Watson Research Center, USA


Send submissions to:

Yvo Desmedt, Program Chair Crypto '94
Dept. of C&O (combinatorics and optimization)
University of Waterloo
Ontario N2L 3G1
Canada
Internet: desmedt@cs.uwm.edu
Fax: before January 26: +972 (4) 294353
     after  January 26: +1 (519) 746-3077

For other information, contact the General Chair:

Jimmy R. Upton, General Chair Crypto '94
Uptronics Incorporated
1590 Oakland Road
Suite B203
San Jose, CA  95131
USA
Internet: jupton@netcom.com
fax: +1 (408) 451-8901




