Message-ID: <165314Z25011994@anon.penet.fi>
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!EU.net!news.funet.fi!news.eunet.fi!anon.penet.fi
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
From: an62770@anon.penet.fi (Bloodnet) <anon12070@anon.penet.fi> (S.Boxx)
X-Anonymously-To: sci.crypt
Organization: Anonymous contact service
Reply-To: an62770@anon.penet.fi
Date: Tue, 25 Jan 1994 16:43:50 UTC
Subject: S.Walker on RSA Conference
Lines: 109





           Notes from RSA Data Security Conference

                     Stephen Walker
                 Trusted Information Systems
                    January 18, 1994


Over 400 people attended the third RSA Data Security Conference
on January 12-14, 1994, at the Hotel Sofitel in Redwood City, CA.

William Murray, of Deloitte & Touche, gave the keynote
presentation in which he described the major developments in
cryptography in this century. He stated that cryptography is now
cheap enough to be used by default but warned that the quantity
of information that could benefit from use of cryptography is
going up faster than its use. He cited "ambivalent government
policies" as the main impediment to wide use of cryptography but
added that these issues will not be decided by government but by
the public, as individuals buy specific cryptographic products.

Over a dozen major companies announced a wide array of products
that are now or will soon be available using RSA technologies.
Among them were Hewlett-Packard, National Semiconductor, Apple,
McCaw Cellular, and Novell.

A Cryptographers Expert Panel headed by Peter Neumann came to the
tentative conclusion that the best follow-on to the Data
Encryption Standard (DES) may well be triple DES (in the encrypt-
decrypt-encrypt mode). There would be no need to search for a new
standard. The fifteen or more years of confidence building
analysis already applied to DES would be immediately applicable.
The extra cost of running triple DES could be recovered in
improved hardware speeds.

Following a question as to how to provide a means for recovering
encrypted data for which the key has been lost (the locksmith
function), it was pointed out that there is a big difference
between encryption used for data communications and that used for
data storage. The assumption is that encrypted messages in
transit have little value since if they are lost they can be re-
sent. Encrypted data in storage, on the other hand, has great
value. The cryptographic community has not spent enough effort
developing techniques for these storage issues. This is a major
topic that cryptographers will have to tackle in the future.

In a Government panel, Lynn McNulty of NIST summarized the status
of NIST's standards efforts:

     -    DES recertified for five years,

     -    FIPS 140-1, Security Requirements for Cryptographic
          Modules has been approved, and

     -    Nothing to say on the Digital Signature Standard (DSS)
          or the Escrowed Encryption Standard, but perhaps
          something will happen soon.

Bruce Heiman, of Preston Gates, summarized the industry
objections to the present government export rules, and Whit
Diffie, standing in for Clint Brooks, of NSA, who could not
attend, gave a briefing on what he thought Clint might have
wanted to say concerning the national security side of the
cryptography argument.

Dave Sobel, of CPSR, in discussing the Clipper initiative, stated
that he did not believe that Congress intended in the Computer
Security Act of 1987 that NIST put forth a classified encryption
algorithm for protecting the public's unclassified
communications. He also brought out several Constitutional
arguments regarding Clipper. As a first amendment issue, he cited
problems with any government activity that attempts to regulate
how we communicate. As the fourth amendment issue, in answering
the question "Can the government seek to ensure its ability to
collect information by imposing new restrictions such as key
escrow?", he stated a basic premise of the Bill of Rights that,
to protect average citizens from an overzealous government, "law
enforcement is supposed to be difficult."  As a fifth amendment
issue regarding the prohibition against self incrimination, he
stated that key escrow amounts to a surrender of this right in
order to communicate.

Steve Kent, of BBN, described the ACM-sponsored Cryptographic
Policy Panel, which started last fall and will issue a report
"mid-year."  The panel will not issue recommendations but,
rather, a better articulation of the issues, attempting to
separate facts, opinions, and future speculations.

Rumors flowed freely that "within two weeks" the government would
proceed with the licensing of the Digital Signature Algorithm to
Public Key Partners.  This would result in the promulgation of
the DSS inspite of overwhelming public comment opposing it.

Rumors aside, it is clear from this conference that a substantial
portion of the market place has decided to use RSA-based public
key cryptography in a wide spectrum of generally available
products.




-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To find out more about the anon service, send mail to help@anon.penet.fi.
Due to the double-blind, any mail replies to this message will be anonymized,
and an anonymous id will be allocated automatically. You have been warned.
Please report any problems, inappropriate use etc. to admin@anon.penet.fi.
