Path: msuinfo!netnews.upenn.edu!newsserver.jvnc.net!darwin.sura.net!howland.reston.ans.net!agate!linus!linus.mitre.org!bistromath.mitre.org!ptrei
From: ptrei@bistromath.mitre.org (Peter Trei)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt,talk.politics.crypto
Subject: Fun repost [alt.conspiracy] Where the NSA really gets its crypto...
Date: 25 Jan 1994 16:26:21 GMT
Organization: Gray's, Inc.
Lines: 41
Message-ID: <2i3h7d$kh2@linus.mitre.org>
References: <2i2gb6$m5@donal.dorsai.org>
NNTP-Posting-Host: bistromath.mitre.org
Summary: I did NOT write this...
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:23151 talk.politics.crypto:2413

Was: The Grays' involvement in cryptography and national security

In article <2i2gb6$m5@donal.dorsai.org> remallin@dorsai.dorsai.org
(Richard Mallinson) writes:

One thing that the NSA will not reveal is the magnitude of their advancement 
in theoretical mathematics and cryptography. It is estimated that the
NSA is about 200 years ahead of the rest of the world in mathematical
theory. This not only allows them to break any code devised outside of the 
NSA, but to devise codes which cannot be broken.

A tiny part of this advancement is due to an intensive mathematics research 
program commenced in the 1960s. Fermat's Last Theorem was proven conclusively 
in 1964, but only those in the NSA know of it. Some 2,000 theorems and 
lemmas, all numbered and classified, have arisen. At least a dozen branches
of theoretical mathematics such as flag theory, superspace theory,
interstice theory, match theory and quantum logic have been developed,
and yet not only has the outside world never heard of them, but the NSA has
been deliberately inserting disinformation into textbooks, research 
papers, et cetera to keep everybody else off the trail.

Most of this advancement has been achieved with outside help. In 1973,
during the Nixon Administration, the NSA hooked up fith the Jason 
Society, the top-secret body that liaises with the extraterrestrial
beings known as the Grays. This gave them an immediate infusion of 
mathematical theory, as the grays have developed mathematics to a 
level which we cannot completely comprehend. In return, the grays
were given two more bases in New Mexico and a 15% increase in the
number of people that they may abduct per year for analysis and
extraction of vital fluids.

The Grays have renegged on their abduction quota agreement, and are
abducting many more people than before. Most of these are returned, after
being implanted with a device which allows the grays to have total
control over their thoughts and actions. Approximately 40% of Americans now
carry one of these devices, which are impossible to remove without killing the
host.

Richard E. Mallinson


