Path: msuinfo!uchinews!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!sunic!news.funet.fi!nntp.hut.fi!vipunen.hut.fi!nispa
From: Tapani.Lindgren@HUT.Fi
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: rigging Lotto draws
Date: 26 Jan 1994 06:36:58 GMT
Organization: Helsinki University of Technology
Lines: 52
Message-ID: <2i532a$dtn@nntp.hut.fi>
References: <CJr3G0.51p@freenet.carleton.ca> <CK0CzL.EF@sneaky.lonestar.org>
NNTP-Posting-Host: vipunen.hut.fi
Originator: nispa@vipunen.hut.fi

Gordon@sneaky.lonestar.org (Gordon Burditt) writes:
>A question to consider:  Suppose the lottery offered a
>"Super Quick Pick", which costs double the usual price of
>a ticket and has the same payoff, but which selects
>the numbers randomly FROM THE NUMBERS WITH THE LEAST
>NUMBER OF PEOPLE SELECTING THEM SO FAR.  Assuming you're
>going to play the lottery, should you use this?  It's 
>obvious that if you do, you want to be the last person
>buying a ticket, and you certainly shouldn't spend extra 
>money on "Super Quick Pick" when sales first open.

If you restrict the set of numbers in your selection
(even to the less popular ones) there is a risk that
the chance of sharing the winning combination with
someone else will increase, not decrease.  For example,
let's suppose that there are six numbers drawn and
"Super Quick Pick" only uses the least-popular 50% of
the available numbers.  Then "SQP"-players only use about
1/64 of the combination space (actually even a little bit 
less than that).  Now if, say, 1/50 of the lottery players
choose to play "SQP", their "combination sub-space" is much
more densely populated than whole combination space on the
average.  In this case, it would be better to play an
"Ordinary Quick Pick" with completely random selections.

In other words, even if the individual numbers have less-than-
average frequency, their combinations may have more-than-average
frequency.


However, there must exist a strategy for selecting the
numbers that yields a unique combination more often than
a random selection would.  (Why not call this "Hyper Quick
Pick".)   Obviously, totally ruling out the most popular
numbers is not necessarily the best strategy.  Instead,
one could calculate a HQP-probability for each number based
on that number's popularity in the manually selected
combinations, and the estimated number of HQP-players.


Also note that the popularity of each number
does not vary very much from draw to draw.
Therefore it should be acceptable to use long-term
average frequencies in calculating the HQP-probabilities,
and it would not be necessary to delay purchasing the
ticket till the last hour.

One exception to this is that last draw's winning
numbers might be more popular than usual.  However,
a probabilistic model could try to predict this effect.

Tapani
