Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!wupost!crcnis1.unl.edu!gilley
From: gilley@helios.unl.edu (Jim Gilley)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Help please - looking for Diffie-Hellman key exchange s/w
Date: 25 Jan 1994 22:38:16 GMT
Organization: University of Nebraska--Lincoln	
Lines: 40
Message-ID: <2i470o$ko4@crcnis1.unl.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: helios.unl.edu
Summary: I need Diffie-Hellman public key exchange software (to buy)
Keywords: diffie-hellman


I am working on a project which uses DES to encrypt data sent over an
insecure channel.  These devices need to be able to generate random 56 bit
keys and then exchange them using Diffie-Hellman public key exchange.

Due to the aggressive schedule of this project, we do not have enough time 
to study the Diffie-Hellman technique and write our own code.  Therefore, 
we are searching for a vendor which will sell us a solution.

The code must ultimately be written in Texas Instruments TMS320C5X assembly
language - not compiled.  I can write the C5X code myself, but will need
highly commented C source code in order to do this - i.e. the code will
need to be simple enough for me to understand and translate in short order.

I consider the specific needs to be:

1 - some method of generating a 56 bit random key which is as
    non-deterministic as possible - this is not a trivial problem
    (the DSP has only a 16 bit timer available to use as a seed)

2 - a reasonable implementation of the Diffie-Hellman public key
    exchange technique which will securely transfer the 56 bit key
    between the two devices - parameters will need to be chosen for DH

3 - all support routines needed for the above - including the multiple
    precision arithmetic, etc. - remember, this must run on the DSP
    which is fundamentally a 16 bit device

4 - the need for this material is immediate - there is no time for
    anyone to write any of this - we're looking for an off the shelf
    solution, or as close to it as we can come

If anyone is aware of a company/organization/individual who can provide
(sell) a solution to this problem, please contact me via E-mail/fax/phone.

Thank you very much.

Jim Gilley                                    gilley@helios.unl.edu
Member Technical Staff                        Phone: (800)-228-0226
Transcrypt International Inc.                 Fax: (402)-435-6780
