Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!sdd.hp.com!portal!cup.portal.com!Michael_A_Radanovich
From: Michael_A_Radanovich@cup.portal.com
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Hardware Random Number Generator
Message-ID: <102100@cup.portal.com>
Date: Wed, 26 Jan 94 17:46:08 PST
Organization: The Portal System (TM)
Distribution: world
References:  <940122234631@oxted.demon.co.uk>
Lines: 65

On January 22, George Foot wrote:
>It seems to me that the construction of a Random Number Generator in
>hardware should be neither difficult nor expensive.
>I have in mind a generator in which the source of a random output
>signal would be a small gas discharge tube.  (In the UK this is the method
>used to generate random numbers in connection with a government lottery).
>My view is that such a unit should be included with every personal computer
>-- alternatively that it should be possible to install such a unit within
>any computer or connect it externally to any computer.
>I should greatly appreciate advice from anyone who has experience in
>connection with hardware rndom number generators and I would particularly
>welcome circuitry and constructional details.
>Another way of tackling the problem:  Can such a unit be purchased at a
>reasonable cost ?
>George Foot
>E-Mail  georgefoot@oxted.demon.co.uk

     Doesn't the game port on a PC support analog (resistive type) 
joysticks?  If so, there must be an A/D converter in it, abeit a slow, 
8-bit one, in all likelihood.  This way you could probably build your 
random number generator by capacitively coupling a few op-amp gain 
stages.  The actual noise source would be the shot noise at the input 
of the first op-amp.  Total cost would be comparable to lunch at 
McDonald's.

     If someone can come up with specs on the game port, I should be 
able to design and test an appropriate circuit.  (I've been toying with 
the idea of building a hardware number generator myself for a while.)

     I can't help you with software, though.  My system at home is not 
a PC (it's an Amiga), and the PC I use at work doesn't have a game 
port (it's strictly for business y'know, except when I'm using it to 
reply to Usenet articles :-))

     The output of a sampled-white-noise hardware random number 
generator (a SWNHRNG, pronounced "swine ring?") will still have 
discernible statistics.  The shot noise source has a nearly gaussian
distribution, and the offsets of the op-amps will make the mean 
differ from zero, and non-linearity in the A/D converter will 
make some values more, or less, prevalent than they should be.
Also, unless the noise has a perfectly flat spectrum up to half
the sample frequency, and then drops to zero above half the 
sample rate (and it's theoretically impossible to build a filter 
that does this), each sample will be correlated to the previous 
and following samples.  These effects could create a vulnerability 
to cryptanalysis without some sort of software massaging on the
bitstream.  Maybe you could treat the bitstream as one huge binary 
number and use its square root or its prime factorization
(ROTFL).

     BTW, the old Commodore 64 has a hardware random number generator
associated with the white noise function in the SID sound chip.  I
don't know whether this is sampled white noise (truly random) or a 
digital pseudorandom sequence which is fed to a D/A convertor to
simulate the sound of white noise.  It might be worth checking out;
those machines can be had for a song these days.

     The Ohio state lottery uses colored ping-pong balls blown and 
stirred around in a cage to pick its random numbers.  I guess 
lotteries are as much interested in creating a spectacle (glowing
gas discharge tubes and bouncing ping-pong balls) as in creating
randomness.

                                   Michael Radanovich
                           <Michael_A_Radanovich@cup.portal.com>
