Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!emory!rsiatl!jgd
From: jgd@dixie.com (John De Armond)
Subject: Re: Nuclear random number generator
Message-ID: <yv335j#@dixie.com>
Date: Thu, 27 Jan 94 03:00:15 GMT
Organization: Dixie Communications Public Access.  The Mouth of the South.
References: <sy13=gm@dixie.com> <phrCK7DKs.8BK@netcom.com>
Lines: 58

phr@netcom.com (Paul Rubin) writes:

>This would be kind of a fun experiment, although of course random
>numbers ftp'd over a big network would be useless for cryptographic
>purposes (the idea of cryptography is that the random numbers have
>to be kept secret from eavesdroppers).  

I've been thinking about this.  Suppose the file has, say, a million
random numbers.  Or a hundred million or some such huge number.
Suppose I want to do a one time pad cypher.  Could I take two 
random chunks of the random number string the length of the plaintext, 
XOR them together and get another equally random but now secret pad? 
How does this appear from a cryptanalysis perspective?

>of events per minute will not be distributed quite uniformly; see
>Knuth vol. 2. exercise 3.1-1(d)).  Then generate a 1 if the count is
>odd or a 0 if it is even.  To get a random bit stream, just repeat
>this process.

Unfortunately my Knuths perished in my fire and I can't justify buying
another set :-(

>In practice I'd worry somewhat about sources of nonrandomness
>introduced by the experimental apparatus somehow.  One thing you
>could do is run the random bit stream from the previous step through
>a cryptographic hash function like SHA.  This should get rid of
>any correlations in it and hopefully not introduce any of its own.

That's the problem I have.  If I take a series of counts over the same
measurement interval, the values will distribute themselves around the 
mean in a Poisson distribution. This is characteristic and is used
as a quality check for radiation detectors.  Therefore the counts will 
not be random.  The first alternative that comes to mine is to have
each individual count trigger a read on a high speed counter, say a 
tight loop in a program.  To my novice mind, this should produce
a random stream of numbers.  True?  And how do I test the randomness?

Someone asked about a cheap, homemade detector.  I'm working on that.
The source from a smoke detector can be used, though it is much 
too hot for this purpose.  What I'm contemplating and hopefully will
build in the near future is an air proportional counter with
the source contained within.  What I have in mind is a ping-pong ball
coated on the inside with aquadag and penetrated by a sharp pin.
The pin is insulated from the ball and is biased with the appropriate
voltage, probably around 600.  On the tip of the pin is plated a tiny
bit of Am-241 from a smoke detector.  The sharp point of the pin
sets up the necessary high field gradient and the Am supplies the 
alphas.  A suitable transconductance opamp connected to the aquadag
feeding a comparator should recover the pulses.

John

-- 
John De Armond, WD4OQC, Marietta, GA    jgd@dixie.com 
"Would you fire on US Citizens while in the process of confiscating their guns?"
    A question on a survey given to members of the U.S. counterterrorist 
    unit Navy SEAL Team Six by their commanders last September.
Mail to me may be published at my sole discretion.
