Path: msuinfo!scss3.cl.msu.edu!mrr
From: mrr@scss3.cl.msu.edu (Mark Riordan)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Crypto detection of photo tampering
Date: 29 Jan 1994 22:02:02 GMT
Organization: Michigan State University
Lines: 42
Message-ID: <2iemcq$odo@msuinfo.cl.msu.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: scss3.cl.msu.edu
Keywords: public key, time-stamping, signatures
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL1]

The 21 January 1994 issue of Science magazine has an article on
ways of combating the tampering of digital images using cryptographic
techniques.

Some scientists, and editors of scientific journals, are concerned
that scientific fraud may become more common and harder to detect
with the increasing use of digital, as opposed to chemical, photography.
(Photographs are commonly used as evidence of experimental results
in many branches of science.  Digital images are easier to
manipulate than traditional photographs.)

Gary Friedman of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena has
"developed" a solution based on public key cryptography.
In his system, the digital camera computes a cryptographic hash
of the image, and encrypts the hash using the private component
of a public key.  The encrypted hash is then stored along with the
digital image.

The private component is "built into the camera" in such a way that
it is difficult to recover.  (The article did not give details on this.)

Individuals wishing to verify that a given image came from a particular
camera would decrypt the encryted hash of the image, using the
presumably well-known and publicized public component of the camera's
public key.  This decrypted hash would be checked against the freshly-
computed hash of the actual image.  If the two match, the image must
have come from the camera, and not from some image manipulation software,
which would not have known the private component of the camera's
public key.

The technology is "ready to be commercialized", whatever that means.
The fact that it uses a hash function that produces "about" 160 bits
implies that it uses SHA.

Another, complementary approach is to use digital time-stamping.
A scientist wishing to prove that an image existed on or before a
certain date could take a hash function of the image, and submit the
hash function to a digital time-stamping service.  (Digital time-stamping
notary services have been described elsewhere, including the RSA 93
Conference.)  

Mark Riordan
