Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: OWS frcatal compression
From: terry.smith@canrem.com (Terry Smith)
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!uunet.ca!canrem!dosgate!terry.smith
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <60.11635.4262.0N180328@canrem.com>
Date: Mon,  2 Aug 93 07:41:00 -0400
Organization: CRS Online  (Toronto, Ontario)
Lines: 56

Does anyone know anything about the program I dl'd from CRS the other
day?

OWS95B.ZIP

It claims to be a fractal compressor capable of achieving 1500 to 1
compression ratios.

Before you laugh, I know that it *IS* possible to get these ratios BUT
it takes a *LOT* of computer power therefore you need an addon number
cruncher type circuit.

For example there is a firm that makes one - it's 50 grand.

I checked out OWS for trojanism very carefully. It passed all the virus
tests - as anything from CRS will, and any self-respecting trojan would.

I DIDN'T get caught by THRASHER  - remember THRASHER? and expected
something like it here.

It is a common criminal technique to appeal to the victim's greed. This
way the criminal can rationalize it to himself that he is only punishing
the victim for being greedy.

THRASHER claimed huge CPS rates for 2400 baud dls.

But THRASHER had NO dox and a small pascal program source code that
seemed to do nothing and was peppered with obscenities.

THRASHER was easy. *THIS* thing has nice dox. It is claimed to be
written in Japan by a 'Okuyashi "Wilbur" Sakinaba'.

However, it gives no way to get ahold of him.

Cursing myself for an idiot, I tried it. MAYBE It would work - but it
would take HOURS for one file. It might still be worth it.

I compressed a 200 K gif down to 27 bytes - that's BYTES ladies and
gentlemen - in about 3 seconds on a SX 16 386 with this thing.

Then I brought it back in about 5. It seemed to work, but when I
conmpresed/expanded it again I got a sector not found error.

Now - it did NOT scrag my disk. BUT it did worry me. MAYBE it's a bug.

But I gotta say it ranks high on the trojan suspect list to me.

I notice it comes with handy dandy BAT files to do whole dirs of ZIP LZH
and ARJ files. Gee, that's convenient.

Terry Smith

Note - if this is for real, the entire BBS universe just changed.

---
 þ TLX v1.55 þ "DEL *.*" - 100% file compression.
