Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!vnet.IBM.COM
From: ameline@vnet.IBM.COM (Ian Ameline)
Message-ID: <19930802.155935.23@almaden.ibm.com>
Date: Mon, 2 Aug 93 18:58:17 EDT
Subject: SKIPJACK Review, Interim Report
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
References: <1993Aug1.220927.4510@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu>
Disclaimer: This posting represents the poster's views, not those of IBM
Lines: 69

In article <1993Aug1.220927.4510@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu>,
denning@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu writes:
> [Preliminary report regarding Clipper deleted]

   Ms Denning (et al), is it in the charter of your group to recommend
changes which might enhance the public confidence in the Clipper chip
and key escrow, without compromising the stated goals of the escrow?

   I'm not convinced one way or the other whether or not the algorithm
is truly secure -- I suspect it is, but I am quite unconvinced that the
method for encoding the unit key on the chips is secure -- The unit keys
exist for some (however short) time *outside* the chip -- after the
laptop in the vault xors the escrowed components. Would it not inspire
more confidence if the chip had some small number of write once only
registers (less than 8) which the clipper chip would then XOR together
to form the unit key? Each escrow agency could load its part of the unit
key separately from the others -- the final unit key would never be known
to anyone -- it would never exist outside the clipper chip -- which is
supposed to be secure against physical attack. Each part would never be
in the same room as any other part, aside from being in the write only
registers on the (supposedly) attack proof clipper chip. The *only* way
for anyone to ever know what the unit key is would be to get the parts
from the escrow agencies and xor them together.

   Each escrow agency could use some physically random process for coming
up with its part of the unit key. The nice thing about this scheme is
that in order to trust the final key, you can mistrust all but one of the
escrow agencies. If you trust even one to do an honest job, then you can
trust the result. (of course, you have to trust the implementation of
the clipper chip -- the write once only nature of these registers,
and anti-reverse engineering features of the chip and packaging, and the
strength of the Skipjack algorithm itself.)

   As it stands now, you have to trust whoever comes up with the 2 parts
of the key, and whoever owns the laptop/vault combination. If you don't
trust them (and I suspect that most readers of this newsgroup don't)
then you can't trust the resulting key.

   The problem with a really secure escrow scheme is that if someone
(say a terrorist -- or someone in the employ of organized crime) were
to bomb or otherwise destroy any one of the escrow agencies' database,
then all the chips whose keys were escrowed there would be truly secure
from lawful wiretaps. I wonder if this would be acceptable to Law
Enforcement types. Certainly if the stated intent of the clipper
proposal is true, then this is a problem with the present clipper
scheme -- mandating some pretty tight physical security around the
escrow agencies.

   I hope that your final report includes information about the
auditability of the keying process, and the escrow agencies.-- We
should be able to prove that these are working as designed, and that
the escrow agencies aren't giving out key portions without being served
valid court orders, or that the laptop is not surreptitiously stashing
away the unit keys. (I'm actually amazed at how corruptible this part of
the whole scheme is -- compared to how carefully the algorithm seems to
have been designed) My proposal for having the chip do the XORs, and
having the escrow agencies use some suitable random selection of the
parts of the key might help improve confidence here.

   And I also hope that you investigate what happens when the LEAF is
corrupted. Does the chip actually switch to a pre-set key (like all 0)
when these fields are corrupted, or does it break the connection?
If it is possible, by changing some bits at the appropriate points in the
transmission, to compromise the security then it's not much good is it?

I'm eagerly awaiting your reply.

Regards,
Ian Ameline.
