Path: msuinfo!agate!spool.mu.edu!olivea!uunet!bounce-back
From: djb@silverton.berkeley.edu (D. J. Bernstein)
Newsgroups: news.announce.newgroups,news.groups,sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper
Subject: CFV: talk.politics.crypto
Followup-To: poster
Date: 2 Aug 1993 22:13:45 -0400
Organization: IR
Lines: 61
Sender: tale@rodan.UU.NET
Approved: tale@uunet.uu.net
Message-ID: <talk.politics.crypto-CFV1@uunet.uu.net>
Reply-To: mail-server@rtfm.mit.edu
NNTP-Posting-Host: rodan.uu.net
Xref: msuinfo news.announce.newgroups:3673 news.groups:77721 sci.crypt:18364 alt.privacy.clipper:1264

I call for votes for a new unmoderated group:

talk.politics.crypto   The relation between cryptography and government.

The name of the group needs little explanation. Like talk.politics.drugs
and talk.politics.guns, this newsgroup will cover all sides of a sticky 
issue. There's a lot of existing traffic which would fit very well into
talk.politics.crypto; this group should be reasonably successful at 
drawing inappropriate traffic out of sci.crypt.

Please note that talk.politics.crypto is not meant to foreclose the 
possible future creation of a (moderated) sci.crypt.research group.

Voting instructions appear below. Always remember: Friends don't let
friends vote drunk. Don't post your votes, and don't mail them to me.
Votes must be received during August, GMT. The results will be announced 
in early September.

[[ news.announce.newgroups moderator's note: to be totally clear, the
end of the voting period is 00:00 GMT, 1 Sep 93 -- tale ]]

---Dan

In order to vote for or against this newsgroup, you must send a mail
message to the address mail-server@rtfm.mit.edu. If your site does not
understand that address, you might try:

	mail-server%rtfm.mit.edu@athena.mit.edu
	mit-athena!rtfm.mit.edu!mail-server
	uunet!rtfm.mit.edu!mail-server

If none of these addresses works, talk to someone at your site who can
help you address the mail properly. Posted votes will not be counted.
Votes mailed to the poster of this message will not be counted.

Your mail should contain one of the following three lines, in the body
of the mail message:

	vote talk.politics.crypto yes
	vote talk.politics.crypto no
	vote talk.politics.crypto abstain

The first two lines register a vote either for or against the creation
of the newsgroup. The third line cancels any previous vote for or
against the creation of the newsgroup. Multiple voting messages from the
same person must be sent from the same address. If multiple votes are
received from the same person, the last vote received is the only one
counted. The subject line of your mail will be ignored.

You should receive a response to your vote, acknowledging its receipt,
within two days. If you do not, or if you have some other problem with
voting, you can get help by sending mail to owner-mail-server@rtfm.mit.edu.

The hardware resources for vote collection are being provided by the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The vote-collection software is
being provided by Jonathan Kamens <jik@GZA.COM>. The manpower necessary
to collect the votes is being provided by Jonathan Kamens and Geer Zolot
Associates. MIT, Jonathan Kamens, and Geer Zolot Associates have nothing
to do with the newsgroup proposal; they're just collecting the votes as
a neutral third party.

