Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!sdd.hp.com!decwrl!decwrl!oracle!unrepliable!bounce
Newsgroups: alt.privacy.clipper,sci.crypt
From: cdupree@oracle (Chuck Dupree)
Subject: Re: "And that's the way it was..."
In-Reply-To: fergp@sytex.com's message of Tue, 3 Aug 1993 01:59:21 GMT
Message-ID: <CDUPREE.93Aug5182305@bruins.oracle>
Sender: usenet@oracle.us.oracle.com (Oracle News Poster)
Nntp-Posting-Host: bruins.us.oracle.com
Organization: Oracle Corporation, Belmont, Ca.
References: <mPoo8B1w165w@sytex.com>
Date: Fri, 6 Aug 1993 02:23:05 GMT
X-Disclaimer: This message was written by an unauthenticated user
              at Oracle Corporation.  The opinions expressed are those
              of the user and not necessarily those of Oracle.
Lines: 91
Xref: msuinfo alt.privacy.clipper:1347 sci.crypt:18457

In article <mPoo8B1w165w@sytex.com> fergp@sytex.com (Paul Ferguson) writes:

   To refresh your memories, I just thought that reposting the original
   announcement may clear up some of the debate. I'd particularly like to
   point out Q10 (question #10) which follows the announcement, which I
   presume was drafted by officials at the NIST.

   It deals directly with the premise of ".... would the Administration
   be willing to use legal remedies to restrict access to more powerful
   encryption devices?" -- which I consider to be a loaded question.

I agree, it's a specious response, designed to obscure the truth, and
carefully worded with that purpose in mind.  And how about Question
#1, in which the point is again cleanly avoided by careful choice of
words?

   QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ABOUT THE CLINTON ADMINISTRATION'S
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS INITIATIVE

   Q:   Does this approach expand the authority of government
	agencies to listen in on phone conversations?

   A:   No.  "Clipper Chip" technology provides law enforcement with
	no new authorities to access the content of the private
	conversations of Americans.

Strictly speaking, of course, this is true; but in spirit it is
blatantly false.  While this technology provides law enforcement with
no new _authority_ to listen in on phone conversations, what it does
provide is more important: the physical capability to listen in.
Government agencies follow the legal restrictions when forced to do
so, and escape them when that is possible.  Providing new tools
for eavesdropping makes it easier to eavesdrop, laws or no laws.

And the answer to Question 2 is equally misleading.

   Q:   Suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a wiretap on
	a drug smuggling ring and intercepts a conversation
	encrypted using the device.  What would they have to do to
	decipher the message?

   A:   They would have to obtain legal authorization, normally a
	court order, to do the wiretap in the first place.  They
	would then present documentation of this authorization to
	the two entities responsible for safeguarding the keys and
	obtain the keys for the device being used by the drug
	smugglers.  The key is split into two parts, which are
	stored separately in order to ensure the security of the key
	escrow system.

And if you buy this one, I've got several bridges in the NYC area you
might want to hear about.  "They would have to obtain legal
authorization" unless they didn't feel like doing so, in which case
they would obtain the information in a different manner (see Nixon's
so-called Huston Plan for an example of the government's willingness
to violate laws if it serves the purpose of the current
administration).  There is no information in the government or big
business that cannot be obtained surreptitiously by use of the claim
of "national security", which has taken its place as the first refuge
of scoundrels.

And the rest of the Q&A is on the same level.  

The response to a question about the strength of the system's security
begins "This system is more secure than many other voice encryption
systems readily available today."  In other words, it isn't even the
most secure voice encryption system readily available today.

The list of proposers of the product begins "The National Security
Council, the Justice Department, the Commerce Department, and other
key agencies...".  The Congressional mandate for the program is not
mentioned; Congress only enters the picture in these two sentences:
"We have on-going discussions with Congress..." and "We have briefed
members of Congress...".  Possibly the Congressional mandate is not
mentioned because it specifically excluded the National Security
Agency from participating in this program; but the plan came entirely
from the NSA anyway, to the point that officials at NIST (which was
chartered by Congress to develop the new encryption system) were not
allowed to see the documents describing the plan unless they had
extremely high security clearances, which in general they did not.

And finally, in a very revealing statement responding to a question
about the difference between the Bush and Clinton approaches, no
distinction is drawn.  Rather, emphasis is laid on the needs of law
enforcement for new methods of invading privacy and subverting the
Constitutional protections of citizens who are not accused of any
crime.  Indeed, as the answer implies, there is essentially no
difference in approach between the former CIA director and his
supposedly liberal successor.

- Chuck Dupree
