Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!utnut!torn!mcshub!cebnet!mike
From: mike@CEB.McMaster.CA (Mike Anderson)
Subject: Re: SKIPJACK Review, Interim Report
Message-ID: <1993Aug5.204247.3594@mcshub.dcss.mcmaster.ca>
Sender: usenet@mcshub.dcss.mcmaster.ca
Nntp-Posting-Host: cebnet.ceb.mcmaster.ca
Organization: McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada
References: <23i6hm$2ov@charm.magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu> <WCS.93Aug2043053@rainier.ATT.COM> <2416@indep1.UUCP>
Date: Thu, 5 Aug 1993 20:42:47 GMT
Lines: 69

>From: clifto@indep1.UUCP (Cliff Sharp)
>
>Something just occurred to me...
>There's supposed to be a key escrow system from which my (or anyone else's)
>law enforcement keys are available.  Presumably, this means that when I'm
>sold the SKIPJACK phone, I'm somehow registered as having the phone with key
>X.
>What's to keep me from stealing someone else's phone?
>

Yes I agree.  This is a problem.  I think that to protect law abiding
citizens the government should mandate the implantation of a smart chip 
in everyones forehead with a unique LEF for identification  These could
interface to a SKIPJACK phone by holding the phone near the forehead
before it will place a call.

Anyone caught without an implant could be arrested and sent for a long 
prison sentence, since they clearly must be a terrorist or drug dealer.

The government could also use these devices to record the movement of
citizens, by placing monitoring equipment in public places.  This would help 
protect law abiding citizens from evil (drug terrorists mad bombers etc)

I think it would be a good idea also to require the implants to be used for 
electronic ID on all retail credit transactions. (as evil boogy men need to 
buy stuff to do their evil). And lets elliminate cash of course,  the smart
implants make it obsolete.

Then there are all of those security monitoring cameras already installed
in just about everywhere you can think of.  I bet our clever government
engineers could come up with an inexpensive interface box that would let 
law enforcement agencies tap into these cameras at the touch of a button
(after geting warrents of course).  The interface box would also interact
with the smart chip forhead implant so that the LEF info can be correlated
with the pictures.

I think this technology would also allow consolidation and streamlining
of law enforcement.  For instance: private security could be outlawed.
Afterall, why should only the rich be able to afford extra security.
Government could provide security to all citizens.  Law enforcement agencies
could be consolidated.  As much as possible would be automated.

Elecronic and computerized monitoring of suspected criminals could
become the primary investigative tool.

Computers could automatically analyse routinely collected information such
as spending patterns, movements, who one communicates with in order to
come up with probable suspects of criminal activity.  
warrants could then be obtained (automatically and virtually instantaneously
via computer link to justice computers) to open more detailed records and
allow closer watching of these suspects.

The government could even take an active role in crime prevention.  Those
who seem destined for some criminal activity could be aprehended and
helped at special  retraining centers.

There would be absolutely no impact on law abiding citizens.  There would
be no crime / drugs/ terrorism / evil and everyone would smile (for the
cameras, as only mallcontent criminal types could possibly be unhappy).
Escrow protocols etc. etc. would protect your freedoms.

State controlled crypto will make it all possible.

Enemies of the state beware: Electronically enforced utopia is at hand!

:)


Mike Anderson - mike@cebnet.ceb.mcmaster.ca
