Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!news.kei.com!news.oc.com!utacfd.uta.edu!rwsys!sneaky!gordon
From: gordon@sneaky.lonestar.org (Gordon Burditt)
Subject: Re: SKIPJACK Review, Interim Report
Message-ID: <CBCwt2.n2D@sneaky.lonestar.org>
Organization: Gordon Burditt
References: <1993Aug1.220927.4510@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu>
Date: Fri, 6 Aug 1993 21:24:25 GMT
Lines: 77

>    Two escrow agents that each hold a component of every device unique
>    key.  When combined, those two components form the device unique
>    key.

What guarantee that an exhaustive search of issued keys is not feasable?
Assume for the moment bad faith on the part of the government (NSA - bad
faith is part of their job!) and one key escrow agency.  How does one 
prove that the device unique keys aren't sequential, ignoring the seeds 
supplied by the escrow agencies?  You don't need to search 2^80 keys if 
you know only a few million have been put into chips, and you know one 
of the keys.

>    A law enforcement access field (LEAF), which enables an authorized
>    law enforcement official to recover the session key.  The LEAF is
>    created by a device at the start of an encrypted communication and
>    contains the session key encrypted under the device unique key
>    together with the device identifier, all encrypted under the family
>    key.

What does it take to exhaustive-search a session key?  Is that 80 bits
also?  Granted, this is a lot less productive, as breaking a session
key only gets you one session, rather than all future sessions until
a key change.

How much effort does it take to crack a device key, given that you've
corrupted one key escrow agency?  One part of the key isn't supposed
to give you any information, but how does one know that the procedure
for generating the key halves hasn't been rigged so it does?  Remember,
it's the NSA's job to do exactly this kind of sabotage.

>    LEAF decoders that allow an authorized law enforcement official to

Does this decoder require insertion of a valid and current warrant before
it will operate?

>    extract the device identifier and encrypted session key from an
>    intercepted LEAF.  The identifier is then sent to the escrow
>    agents, who return the components of the corresponding device
>    unique key.  Once obtained, the components are used to reconstruct
>    the device unique key, which is then used to decrypt the session
>    key.

In other words, the law enforcement officials, once they have obtained
the key, have it FOREVER.  This appears to preclude the possibility
of giving law enforcement a chip which can decode the conversations,
but which can't be copied and has to be returned when the warrant expires.

It also appears to mean that law enforcement on its own can use the LEAF
decoders as a form of Caller-ID, once they've managed to accumulate
a list of device identifiers correlated with call endpoints, so if you
use your privacy-resistant Clipper Phone from your office AND from
airport payphones, they can associate those calls with each other.
This traffic analysis could be used to associate that terrorist newspaper
reporter with crazed whistleblowers or opposition candidates.
Are they even SUPPOSED to need warrants for this?  This has potential
for worse privacy invasion than unencrypted calls, universally monitored.

It would be much more abuse-resistant if law enforcement was required
to deliver a copy of the intercepted LEAF, and got in return a chip
containing the corresponding key, which they have to give back after
the warrant expires, and which can't be copied.  

>This report reviews the security provided by the first component,
>namely the SKIPJACK algorithm.  The review was performed pursuant to
>the President's direction that "respected experts from outside the
>government will be offered access to the confidential details of the
>algorithm to assess its capabilities and publicly report their
>finding."  The Acting Director of the National Institute of Standards
>and Technology (NIST) sent letters of invitation to potential
>reviewers.  The authors of this report accepted that invitation.

Are any of the authors opposed to key escrow?  I have trouble believing
that Dorothy Denning would admit to finding flaws in SKIPJACK even
if it turned out to be considerably weaker than Pig Latin or ROT 13.

						Gordon L. Burditt
						sneaky.lonestar.org!gordon
