Path: msuinfo!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!pipex!uunet!noc.near.net!lard.ftp.com!admin.mcc.mass.edu!palmer
From: palmer@admin.mcc.mass.edu (Chris Palmer)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: strong PRNG via encrypted PRNG output
Date: 9 Aug 93 13:53:04 EST
Organization: Middlesex Community College
Lines: 68
Message-ID: <1993Aug9.135304.1@admin.mcc.mass.edu>
References: <24420v$40i@transfer.stratus.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: admin.mcc.mass.edu

cme@ellisun.sw.stratus.com (Carl Ellison) writes:
> If you want to take a provably long-period PRNG and feed it through a
> strong encryption algorithm, the source PRNG itself doesn't need to be
> strong.  You could use a simple counter, starting at some initial value
> (considered part of the key).
> ...
> Does anyone know of studies of the strength of an algorithm like DES in
> this mode -- encrypting a long sequence of incrementing 64-bit values?
> At what point (if any) does the output stream start looking less than
> perfectly random?

And I wrote, in a different thread:

{
To avoid looping through a short series you could use a counter as input
to a block cipher instead of using feedback. Thus you are guaranteed to
loop through all values of the counter. If the block cipher is secure
there should be no correlation between E(i) and E(i+1). I bounced this
"counter method" concept off Dorothy Denning and Martin Hellman a couple
of years ago and they gave it their blessing, for what it's worth.

Combining CBC with a counter method RNJ would give you a cipher with the
strengths of both systems:

C(i) = E(M(i)^C(i-1),K) ^ E(i+IV,K)
}

I was looking into this last summer (not 2 years ago, my error) and
coincidentally had finally picked up Denning's book and read it. I
remember being perplexed by a seeming discontinuity in the book
regarding this very subject, so I wrote to her. Unfortunately, I didn't
save the note I sent her, but here are excerpts of her reply:

{
...To tell you the truth, enough time has passed that I don't know if
anything was edited on p. 143 or not.  I agree that the transition is
weird.  I thought I had written about the cycle problem that you
mentioned, so it's possible that's what got lost.  Unfortunately, I
threw out my pre-pub version, so I can't even check. I know of no
problems with the counter method, but you could check with Hellman...

...There's been a lot of public work on stream ciphers -- much of this
is published in the proceedings of the CRYPTO and EUROCRYPT conferences
and the J. of the IACR -- all available through Springer...
}

And the reply from Hellman:

{
You seem to be on the right track. The only potential weakness of
"counter mode" that I have seen is that the inputs are highly
correlated. If DES (or whatever block cipher you use) has enough rounds
or other computation, that shouldn't be a problem. Since DES is a bit on
the questionable side, both with key size and with rounds (as shown by
Biham and Shamir's recent  work on differential cryptanalysis), I would
suggest using two DES's in "series," with independent keys (for a total
of 112 bits). That also guards against the high correlation of inputs,
since the inputs to the second DES are quite random. I am not aware of
any books, but Bob Juneman at SBS (Satellite Business Systems) wrote a
paper on this. I don't know if he's still there, but it's a lead.
}

I never got ahold of Bob Juneman or read his paper. If you decide to
follow up on it please let me know. Cheers,

Chris Palmer  palmer@admin.mcc.mass.edu  "Colonel Mode"
Middlesex Community College  33 Kearney Square Lowell, MA 01852
work: 508-656-3318, 617-280-3200-x3318  pager: 617-597-3333
