Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!rutgers!flop.ENGR.ORST.EDU!gaia.ucs.orst.edu!connected.com!beauty!rwing!pat
From: pat@rwing.UUCP (Pat Myrto)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: Re: Why I Think Skipjack Isn't Crippled
Message-ID: <2328@rwing.UUCP>
Date: 9 Aug 93 16:46:44 GMT
References: <1993Aug1.220927.4510@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu> <CBCwt2.n2D@sneaky.lonestar.org> <16C23B0F4.C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu>
Organization: Totally Unorganized
Lines: 85

In article <16C23B0F4.C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu> C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu (John Kelsey) writes:
>In article <CBCwt2.n2D@sneaky.lonestar.org>
>gordon@sneaky.lonestar.org (Gordon Burditt) writes:
> [ ... stuff deleted from both individuals...
>>Are any of the authors opposed to key escrow?  I have trouble believing
>>that Dorothy Denning would admit to finding flaws in SKIPJACK even
>>if it turned out to be considerably weaker than Pig Latin or ROT 13.
> 
>   I'm more concerned with the small number of academic cryptologers who
>were allowed to review the algorithm.  It's conceivable that all five of
>them could have been bribed or threatened into giving an "everything's
>okay" statement.  I don't think this is likely, but I'd like to see more
>people involved.  I'd also like to see (although it might never make the

They don't HAVE to be bribed.  Remember, they had to be given a secret
clearance to even view the algorithm.  So whatever they say about it
has to be declassified FIRST.  Does anybody really think that any real
intentional holes would be declassified?  I envision the panel members
coming up with a report, the NSA/FBI types marking out anything they don't
want revealed, and only declassifying (allowing to be reported) neutral
or favorable comments, with the usual doublespeak.  So, if there were
any deliberate back-doors or hooks for same that didn't require going
through the excrow agencies (what I feel will be a rubber-stamp procedure
anyway), that simply wouldn't be declassified for publication.  I doubt
if anybody on that panel would want to run the risk of a Fedaral prison
term for publishing secret classified information, with its 'feature'
of making one a felon for the rest of ones life, and the effect that
would have on their careers...  And I suspect the panel is pretty much
populated with folks who are known to "go with the program" without any
questions (like Denning seems to be).  For example, has anybody seen
her publish anything that really questions this scheme, or even bring
up problems with the whole idea brough to her attention from others -
even her peers? 

For the question 'why have any back doors if the warrant process is a
rubber-stamp'?  To cover the case where a judge suddenly remembers his
duty.  Do as has been done before:  Do an illegal intercept to get
evidence which makes it possible to justify a real warrant is which then
covers any subsequent intercepts (and if done right, most of the previous
ones, as well).  I understand that this practice has been fairly
wide-spread.  Or, just to conduct fishing expeditions, then using the
evidence to get a legal intercept warrant, and going on from there.
And for traffic between a citizen and a foreign national, the NSA "don't
need no stinkin' warrant".  They have Carte Blanche.  National
Security(tm), y'know.

And a group of - what is it - five persons - examining this thing,
possibly nobody (except Denning, perhaps) getting to see the whole thing
together is hardly the sort of review that a world full of experts
digging at it for perhaps 6 months or a year would be, now is it?

As is commonly said ... something rotton somewhere ...

>press) those involved having the chance to cast a simple and untraceable
>"up" or "down" vote, a la Chaum's dining cryptographers.  Finally, maybe
>a face-to-face meeting with the President, promise of anonymity in exchange
>for complete honesty to him about what's going on.

Face-to-face with the President?!  <snicker> He is probably FOR any
deliberate back-doors, as long as they remain known only to the insiders...
remember it was him that so much as said that commoners have no right
to privacy when it comes to the commonors interests vs the STATE's
interests...  It was Clinton who EAGERLY EMBRACED this concept, who has
ignored any information that expresses concern, at best responding with
vague, non-committal double talk.  A face-to-face meeting him describing
problems of abuse via back doors would most likely evoke a yawn, and a
warning that if the persons reporting the problems valued their careers
and freedom (such as it is), they will remember the law about divulging
classified secrets, and to keep their collective traps shut.  You can
bet one of the criterea for the selection of the participants is a
certainty that they would do just that, no questions asked.  After all,
its for National Security(tm).  Perhaps stoke their egos by telling them
they are privy to information known only to a select TRUSTED few, and
that We Know They Would Be Good Soldiers and Not Violate That Trust
Your Country Has Placed With You...

>  --John Kelsey

Cynically Yours...

-- 
pat@rwing.uucp      [Without prejudice UCC 1-207]     (Pat Myrto) Seattle, WA
         If all else fails, try:       ...!uunet!pilchuck!rwing!pat
WISDOM: "Travelling unarmed is like boating without a lifejacket".
            [Stop the Clipper/Capstone assault on privacy]
