Newsgroups: comp.ai,comp.theory,sci.logic,sci.econ,sci.crypt,sci.philosophy.tech
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!darwin.sura.net!newsserver.jvnc.net!nj.nec.com!grove
From: grove@research.nj.nec.com (Adam Grove)
Subject: Final CFP: Theoretical Aspects of Reasoning about Knowledge (TARK)
Message-ID: <1993Aug11.202544.6236@research.nj.nec.com>
Originator: grove@tinkerbell
Sender: news@research.nj.nec.com
Organization: NEC Research Institute
Date: Wed, 11 Aug 93 20:25:44 GMT
Lines: 79
Xref: msuinfo comp.ai:18347 comp.theory:7606 sci.logic:5143 sci.econ:18551 sci.crypt:18574 sci.philosophy.tech:12635


FIFTH CONFERENCE ON THEORETICAL ASPECTS OF REASONING ABOUT KNOWLEDGE
                            (TARK V)

The Fifth Conference on Theoretical Aspects of Reasoning about
Knowledge will be held at the Asilomar Conference Center in Pacific
Grove, California, on March 13-16, 1994.  Reasoning about knowledge
has become an active area of research in a wide variety of fields,
including Artificial Intelligence, Cryptography, Distributed
Computing, Economics and Game Theory, Linguistics, Philosophy, and
Psychology.  The aim of the conference is to bring together
researchers from these fields in order to further our understanding of
interdisciplinary issues involving reasoning about knowledge and
belief.  Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:  semantic
models for knowledge and belief, bounded rationality and
resource-bounded reasoning, commonsense epistemic reasoning, knowledge
and action, applications of reasoning about knowledge and belief,
knowledge acquisition, belief revision, and learning.

You are invited  to submit 12 copies of a detailed abstract
(not a complete paper) to the program chair:

                       Ronald Fagin
                       Program Chair, TARK '94
                       IBM Almaden Research Center
                       Dept. K53/802
                       650 Harry Road
                       San Jose, California 95120-6099, USA

Submissions will be evaluated on the basis of significance and overall
quality.  Preference will be given to papers whose topic is of
interest to an interdisciplinary audience, and all papers should be
written so that they are accessible to such an audience.  Expository
or survey papers, and papers representing previously published
research but retailored to an interdisciplinary audience, are
acceptable if they are clearly labeled as such.  Each abstract should
1) contain enough information to enable the program committee to
identify the main contribution of the work; 2) explain the importance
of the work---its novelty and its practical or theoretical
implications; and 3) include comparisons with and references to
relevant literature.  Abstracts should be no longer than ten
double-spaced pages (4,000 words).  If possible, an email address for
the contact author should be included.  Papers arriving late or
departing significantly from these guidelines risk immediate
rejection.  Economists should be aware that special arrangements are
being made with certain economics journals (in particular, with the
Journal of Economic Theory and with Games and Economic Behavior) so
that publication of an extended abstract in TARK will not prejudice
publication of a full journal version.

The deadline for submission of abstracts is September 7, 1993.
Authors will be notified of acceptance by November 10th, 1993.
Camera-ready copies of the accepted papers will be due by December 15,
1993.  One author of each accepted paper will be expected to present
the paper at the conference.  The conference will be open to all
interested attendees, and conference proceedings will be published.

Program committee:  Michael Dunn (Indiana University), Ronald Fagin
(IBM Almaden Research Center), Itzhak Gilboa (Northwestern
University), Robert Koons (University of Texas at Austin), Gerhard
Lakemeyer (University of Bonn), Barton Lipman (Queen's University),
Judea Pearl (UCLA), Brian Skyrms (University of California at Irvine),
Mark Tuttle (DEC Cambridge Research Lab), and Lenore Zuck (Yale
University).

Conference Chair: Rohit Parikh, City University Graduate Center, 33
West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036; phone: (212) 642-2201, (914)
834-5681; email: ripbc@cunyvm.cuny.edu, ripbc@cunyvm.bitnet.

Program Committee Chair: Ronald Fagin, IBM Almaden Research Center;
phone: (408) 927-1726; email: fagin@almaden.ibm.com,
fagin@almaden.bitnet.

Local Arrangements: Murray S. Mazer, DEC Cambridge Research Lab.

Publicity: Adam J. Grove, NEC Research Institute.



