Newsgroups: sci.crypt,alt.privacy.clipper
Path: msuinfo!agate!ames!sgi!wdl1!nebula!koontzd
From: koontz@lrcs.loral.com (David Koontz )
Subject: clipper chip serial numbers
Message-ID: <1993Aug11.203327.24014@wdl.loral.com>
Originator: koontzd@nebula
Sender: news@wdl.loral.com
Organization: Loral Rolm Computer Systems
Distribution: usa
Date: Wed, 11 Aug 1993 20:33:27 GMT
Lines: 50
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:18573 alt.privacy.clipper:1392

When I was younger my father had four identical pocket knives.  What was 
interesting (in this context at least) about these knives was that between 
the four there were only two serial numbers.  The explanation I got was that
in all probability, someone on the production line was making a bit on the
side by producing extra and sideslipping normal distribution channels
although this would imply a high probability of not just two but three or
more knives with the same serial number.  Perhaps its just as likely that
someone was simply incompetent with regards to serial numbers on the knives.
The solution to the problem whatever the cause, was to drop serial numbers
from such products, after all pocket knives are ubiquitous.

With respect to serial numbers in clipper chips, these have to be added by
programming, a comparable step to stamping the serial number in a knife with
a moveable type stamp.  One concern that hasn't been raised in the clipper
key escrow controversy is who controls the serial numbers.  Note, that we
as the public can't even get an idea as to the actual size of the serial 
number, or id number as the Justice Department escrow implementer refers to
it.

There is talk about  keeping the escrowed information encrypted, with access
only by an 'eavesdropping unit', which essential keeps marketing and sales
from establishing their own distribution system for the product - the unit
key represented by a particular serial number.

Apparently some elements of the cryptographic algorithm, control store,
and unit, or device specific key are programmed at the same time as the
identifier.  This means that someone in the production end is the only
one capable of deriving spin off copies for their own distribution and
profit.  The bothersome part of this is that these are the same guys
who are responsible for every other element of control:  the cryptographic
algorithm, the LEAF decoder, the eavesdropping unit and the serial
number stamping facility itself.  Just as its hard to insure the integrity
(not just honesty) of employees out on the production floor without added
quality checks, it can be difficult to place blind faith in the federal
government.  Witness the recent congressional testimony with respect to
abuse of the FBI run crime databases.

Potential abuses include duplicated serial numbers, private family codes,
and unregistered unit keys.  One way to prevent the guys over on the 
production floor from making their own knock off product would be to
remove some element of control from their grasp.  The possiblilities 
include having an escrow agent who is responsible for programming (stamping)
the parts pick the family key, and keep it secret.  This implies control
over all the individual hardware elements, including the LEAF decoder
and the eavesdropping unit.  This adds to the likelihood that any
pilfering would be found out.

Perhaps it would be simpler as in the case of the pocket knives,  to
drop the serial numbers and view the product (strong cryptography)
ubiquitously.  
