Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!bloom-beacon.mit.edu!news.kei.com!ub!acsu.buffalo.edu!boyd
From: boyd@acsu.buffalo.edu (Daniel F)
Subject: Re: SKIPJACK Review, Interim Report
Message-ID: <CBo03o.2Iv@acsu.buffalo.edu>
Sender: nntp@acsu.buffalo.edu
Nntp-Posting-Host: autarch-14.acsu.buffalo.edu
Reply-To: boyd@acsu.buffalo.edu (Daniel F)
Organization: UB
References: <1993Aug1.220927.4510@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu>
Date: Thu, 12 Aug 1993 21:09:23 GMT
Lines: 35

In article <1993Aug1.220927.4510@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu> 
denning@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu writes:
> Disclosure of the algorithm would permit the construction of devices
> that fail to properly implement the LEAF, while still interoperating
> with legitimate SKIPJACK devices.

They are keeping the SKIPJACK algorithm secret so that nobody can make
SKIPJACK chips without escrowed keys.

> Such devices would provide high quality cryptographic security
> without preserving the law enforcement access capability that
> distinguishes this cryptographic initiative.

No they wouldn't.  If I'm talking with a non-escrowed phone to someone
whose phone is escrowed, then wiretappers would just get the key to
the other person's phone.

In other words, non-escrowed SKIPJACK devices are only a problem if
they're used at both ends of a conversation.  As long as you call
someone who has a key-escrowed phone, then your conversation is still
subject to wiretap.

Does this matter?  I'm not sure -- if someone was making non-escrowed
SKIPJACK devices, then there's really no big difference from them just
making non-escrowed non-SKIPJACK devices as well.  I mean, big deal if
I have to use an escrowed phone if I want to talk to someone else who
has an escrowed phone; if either party in the conversation is using an
escrowed phone, you can be tapped anyway.

So if I have to supply non-escrowed devices for both ends of a
conversation, then I may as well just use something other than
SKIPJACK.  Why give eavesdroppers the advantage of knowing the system?

-- Dan

