Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!news.ecn.bgu.edu!wupost!csus.edu!netcom.com!grady
From: grady@netcom.com (Grady Ward)
Subject: Re: Passphrase proto-FAQ
Message-ID: <gradyCBqDq6.2By@netcom.com>
Organization: Moby lexicons
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL8]
References: <27897@mindlink.bc.ca>
Date: Sat, 14 Aug 1993 03:58:54 GMT
Lines: 32

David Lipscomb (David_Lipscomb@mindlink.bc.ca) wrote:

: What about a quotation from an obscure book, preferably in another lanuage,
: which is on the bookshelf near my computer, and which is memorable to me for
: purely personal reasons? If the quotation were about 100 characters in
: length, wouldn't that do the trick?

Realistically it would be fine. But it still is inferior to a creative method
because once published it may one day become part of a crack database.  The
fact that it is in another language doesn't help. According to Bamford and
Kahn, the NSA is the number one producer and user of books such as 
'Japanese-Albanian Dictionary.'  What is culturally obscure to use might
very well be a commonplace to them -- in my personal business I license
a very specialized part-of-speech list. Among the relatively select NL/AI
licensees is the NSA. (I identified them through the four digit zip extension.)

There is not a doubt in my mind that they are trying to lead the world in
NL understanding through various kinds of semantic nets.  So they have more than
one reason to convert all kinds of language publications to electronic form.

The advantage of the 'shocking nonsense' technique is three-fold: it is
idiosyncratic because *you* invent it; it is idiosyncratic because it
does not state a matter-of-fact that someone else will light upon logically;
and if shocking enough, it will be memorable and less likely to be written
down or forgotten.


-- 
grady@netcom.com  voice/fax (707) 826-7715 
compiler of Moby lexical databases, including
Moby Part-of-Speech, second edition: 230,000 entries, priority marked 
finger grady@netcom.com or e-mail for more information.
