Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!nigel.msen.com!yale.edu!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Subject: Reply to Mr. Sternlight
Message-ID: <930817043157.227728@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Date: Tue, 17 Aug 1993 04:31:00 GMT
Lines: 99


>As I've said many times,....

Indeed, you have.

>...I believe that absent the key escrow, Skipjack is a
>very secure system--  

I grant this, but it is irrelevant.

>so secure that foreign organizations with NSA's
>capabilities can't break it. 

When dealing with nation states, one has to  be very careful 
with the use of the term "break."  My working assumption is 
that a nation state can read anything at a price.  

>Very likely neither can NSA ....

Same assumption.  At a price, NSA can read anything.  The 
question is how much they have to read.

>....or they wouldn't need the escrow. 

Neither NSA or NIST has ever asserted that NSA needs key-
escrow.   The assertion is that key escrow is for law-
enforcement.   This might make sense if law enforcement
could make a case that criminals are using secret codes.
Whether or not criminals are doing so, law enforcement
has not offered a case that they are doing so.  They have
justified the need for key-escrow on speculation and fear
mongering.

>(I don't accept what I consider to be the paranoid point
>some make that the escrow is a cover to misdirect us from built-in
>weakness.)

Nor do assert such a point, nor is it relevant to my argument.
[I am concerned that all SKIPJACK keys are not equally strong.]

>Given that, the NSA would not like the bad guys to get Skipjack, 
>whether in hardware or software, since they would then be able 
>to use a non-escrowed version to foil the NSA.

This would make sense only in the case where there was a shortage
of strong crypto.  There is no such shortage.  For example NSA 
does not like DES because it is strong, not because it is weak.  
They dislike that its use, while trivial, is growing.  They really
dislike that is available in software, and, therefore, easily
replicated.

>I have made this point repeatedly,....

However, repetion does not make it so.  If it is so, it does
not require repetition and nothing that I say about it will
make it any less so.  I am concerned that unchallenged repetition
might be misleading.

>...and after seemingly agreeing with it,
>Murray then misdirects us by suggesting his point is different from the
>above, and that Denning and I are somehow spouting "nonsense."

If I have said anything to suggest that I believe that the purpose
of CLIPPER is to deny access to SKIPJACK to "bad guys," then I have
been sloppy.  I recant and I apologize.   The purpose of CLIPPER
is to discourage use of crypto in general, and DES in particular, 
by anyone.  Bad guys are coincidental.

It is true that hardware-only is essential to the implementation 
of key-escrow.  However, I assert that the purpose of key-escrow
was to get the FBI to front CLIPPER for NSA.

NSA does not want any civilian or commercial use of crypto at all.
Their interest is in protecting the efficiency of signals 
intelligence.  If the ether were to fill up with random looking
data, then the efficiency of signals intelligence will fall,
perhaps even below the level of other kinds of intelligence
gathering.  The issue is not who uses it but whether or not the
use is sufficiently pervasive to raise their cost and reduce their
efficiency.

At this point the use of any crypto is sparse, but they resist
any growth.  Their targets already have strong crypto, but the 
assumption is that NSA can still read the traffic at some cost.

Any use by "bad guys" is vanishingly small and not relevant.  
While it is true that NSA does not want them to use it, no
use by them is likely to be significant.  What would be significant
would be pervasive use of hybrid RSA/DES by default.

I understand that this distinction is subtle and it may be
lost on Mr. Sternlight.  However, there is a difference in why
he believes that they want hardware-only and why I believe they
want it.  I think that the difference is important and that my
analysis explains their behavior better than his.  

William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104; New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
1-0-ATT-0-700-WMURRAY; WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
