Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!newsserver.jvnc.net!yale.edu!yale!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Subject: (none)
Message-ID: <930817223233.197887@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Date: Tue, 17 Aug 1993 22:32:00 GMT
Lines: 187


[10235] (82 lines) Network_Server.Daemon 08/17/93  0423.1 edt Tue scicrypt
Subject: Re: Reply to Mr. Sternlight
From: news-daemon@optical.bms.com@CLIFF.BMS.COM

From: strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight)
Subject: Re: Reply to Mr. Sternlight
Date: Tue, 17 Aug 1993 07:55:59 GMT

DS2:  In article <930817043157.227728@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MILDS2:  
DS2:  WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL writes:
DS1: Very likely neither can NSA ....
WHM: Same assumption.  At a price, NSA can read anything (save an OTP).
WHM: The question is how much they have to read.
DS1: ....or they wouldn't need the escrow.
DS2:  The panel who reviewed the Skipjack algorithm confirm that it is not
DS2:  breakable at the present state of the art in any reasonable time.

Mr. Sternlight accepts the independence and authority of this panel.
Here, reasonable people can differ.  Only the proprietor knows 
anything about the security of a proprietary algorithm (and all that
he knows may not be true.)  Testimony, assertion, and authority are 
no substitute for the man-decades of evaluation to which the DES,
for example, has been subjected.

DS1: Given that, the NSA would not like the bad guys to get Skipjack,
DS1: whether in hardware or software, since they would then be able
DS1: to use a non-escrowed version to foil the NSA.

WHM: This would make sense only in the case where there was a shortage
WHM: of strong crypto.  There is no such shortage.  For example NSA
WHM: does not like DES because it is strong, not because it is weak.

DS2:  What hard evidence have you for this assertion? Others here who have
DS2:  expertise have said that they believe DES is readable with currently
DS2:  available technology at a reasonable price. 

DS2:  NSA has all but confirmed that
DS2:  between the lines in their Clipper documents.

With the exception of the OTP, any encryption mechanism can be
broken in finite time at some cost.  (See my discussion on  the
length of the DES key in another thread.)

Like any such mechanism, DES is vulnerable to a brute force attack. 
No such attack is free.  The cost is much lower for those, like NSA, that
do it on a wholesale basis.  Nonetheless, the reasonableness of the 
price can be assessed only in the context of the value of the data 
to be recovered.  For the communications of nation states, otherwise
well protected, the cost may be reasonable.  For commercial or
personal communications, the authorities will resort to "alternative" 
means.

More important, serious implementations of the DES are orders of
magnitude more resistant than the primitive DES about which such
assertions are made.  Since DS quotes the "panel" as authority for 
his purposes, let me quote one of the members for mine.  Dr. Walter 
Tuchman asserted in my presence that a brute force attack against 
triple DES with a 112 bit key would require all of the energy from
all of the coal and all of the oil likely to be recovered in the
continental United States for the next 500 years.  Must we debate
one more time the composability of the DES?

WHM: They dislike that its use, while trivial, is growing.  They really
WHM: dislike that is available in software, and, therefore, easily
WHM: replicated.

DS2:  NSA was a party to creating DES for use in the civil sector.

NSA does not assert this; IBM and NIST deny it.  While NSA did
consent to DES, it was the "biggest damn fool mistake" since DDE
appointed Earl Warren to the Supreme Court.  In return for its
consent, NSA believed that it had gotten a quid pro quo of 
HARDWARE-ONLY.  Hardware-only does not bother NSA too much.  It can be
counted, metered, and it resists replication.

WHM: NSA does not want any civilian or commercial use of crypto at all.

DS2:  This is patently false. NSA is responsive to policy directives from the
DS2:  White House and Cabinet Officers, ......

Well, here we are at the nexus of our disagreement.

Last fall, after the election, I suggested to a senior government 
official that the Clinton Administration might be less supportive
of the government's crypto agenda than had been the Bush 
administration.  The man laughed right in my face.  "Administrations
come and go," he said, "NSA goes on forever."  History has demonstrated
just how naive I was.

Mr. Sternlight obviously believes that large government institutions 
are responsive to policy directives even when those policies are
counter to the interest of the institution and counter to its culture.  
My reading of history is much less sanguine than that.

DS2:  ....and it is now U.S. policy to help the
DS2:  private sector protect their communications from foreigners. 
DS2:  NSA has been
DS2:  tasked with this mission and has devoted both resources and good 
DS2:  faith to it.  For details, do a literature search on, for example, 
DS2:  the New York Times, or write to the NSA PIO.  

You will, of course, forgive me if I do accept the NSA PIO as an
authority.  The NSA has a long history of dealing in disinformation; it
goes with the territory.  I doubt that they even expect to be taken seriously.

WHM: Their interest is in protecting the efficiency of signals
WHM: intelligence.

DS2:  This is only one of NSA's missions. It has always had a major mission of
DS2:  Communications Security.

It is unfortunate that the communication security mission has been
tainted by being assigned to the same agency as signals intelligence.
However, the power and budget of NSA derive from the signals
intelligence mission.  The leadership of the agency comes from this
side.  It is where the power is.  With one possible exception, the 
DES, the COMSEC interests have never ever won a battle with those of SIGINT.  

WHM: Any use by "bad guys" is vanishingly small and not relevant.

DS2:  This is false. News items have repeatedly remarked on the use of 
DS2:  crypto by both druggies and foreign intelligence operatives (spies).

While it is true that there has been great speculation, there has
been no credible evidence.  Even if all of the items which appeared
in the news were substantive, or even represented ten others, it
would still not justify this initiative.  [In their testimony before the CSSPAB,
the FBI failed to cite a single instance, much less demonstrate a pattern.  
Their presentation before the CPSR Privacy and Crypto Conference bordered
on the hysterical.]

WHM: While it is true that NSA does not want them to use it, no
WHM: use by them is likely to be significant.  What would be significant
WHM: would be pervasive use of hybrid RSA/DES by default.

DS2:  No problem. Triple DES might take more resources to read, but DES 
DS2:  appears straightforward based on what I read here.

See above.

In this context, it should be noted that use of triple complexity DES
adds marginally to the cost of the user of cryptography but adds 
astronomical orders of magnitude to the cost of the cryptanalyst.
Note that today's computer is a small fraction of the cost and
size of computers on the occasion of the invention of the DES.
As the scale of the computer has fallen and the power has increased,
the advantage of the computer has shifted from the cryptanalyst to 
the user of cryptography.  This is the source of the panic at NSA 
and the stridency of the FBI.

WHM: I understand that this distinction is subtle and it may be
WHM: lost on Mr. Sternlight.

DS2:  There's no need for that in a substantive discussion. It's been long obvious
DS2:  that some who disagree with me are unable to sustain a technical argument
DS2:  unaided by personal attack. If you can't control yourself, take it to
DS2:  alt.fan.david-sternlight where your fellow flamers hang out (without me, I
DS2:  might add).

I leave it to the reader to decide whether or not Mr. Sternlight
appreciates the distinction that I make between keeping SKIPJACK
from "bad guys" and resisting all use of cryptography by everyone 
but the state.

I have tried to respond patiently, politely and at sufficient length
not to be seen as cryptic or sarcastic.  Under the circumstances, I think 
that I have exercised at least moderate restraint.  Having taken on the role
of apologist for a controversial position, and incidentally having received a 
great deal of recognition with the flack for having done so, Mr.
Sternlight seems uncharacteristically sensitive in this instance.
Nonetheless, I apologize for any offense given or taken.

That having been said, we are not engaged in a substantive discussion here; 
we are engaged in a political debate and a struggle for power.  

DB2:David
--
David Sternlight         This message does not necessarily reflect the views
                         of the author, who reserves the right to modify,
                         withdraw, or attack it at any time.
--------------
End of comment number 10235.

William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104; New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
1-0-ATT-0-700-WMURRAY; WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
