Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!library.ucla.edu!ddsw1!news.kei.com!das.wang.com!wang!news
From: summer@csc.cs.technion.ac.il (Summer camp students)
Subject: crypt info wanted; modern codes
Organization: Technion, Israel Inst. of Technology
Date: Wed, 18 Aug 1993 07:24:33 GMT
Message-ID: <CBy1wx.FEA@discus.technion.ac.il>
Sender: news@wang.com
Lines: 36


Hello crypt people. My name is Dani Goldenholz, and I am working this summer
at Technion in Israel. I want as much info on cryptology as you can flood me
with. I am especially interested in modern codes, such as Sneufru, IDEA,
RSA, DES etc. I would love to have source code (preferably C) and further
info such as how it can be broken ect. If you have anything to give me, go
for it. The only code I have (modern) is NewDES, which reminds me, do any
of you know how to break NewDES without an exhaustive search assuming a 
known plaintext attack?

One particular area of interest is public key cryptosystems. Is there anyone
who knows of one that hasn't been broken that is NOT based on prime
factorization? I somehow feel it is dangerous to base a code on what 
cryptographers deem "not likely to occur".

One more thing: since I was working on cryptology for almost a month
now, (intensive study) I came up with an idea, tell me what you think.

Modern codes are build rather securely, so the next step is to simply
get some massively parallel computer and test all passwords. BUT...
What if the password were as big OR BIGGER than the plain text? The main
problem is transmitting a password, so it is supposed to be small. BUT...
in todays modern world, we have a huge abundance of FILES, everywhere.
Can't they be used as passwords as well? For example, a simple code would
take say PKZIP of a specific version, and XOR letters of the plaintext.
(with the chars of the PKZIP EXE file) This in effect destroys the modern
method known as the brute force method. There are infinite files.
Comments? And another thing, I know on some platforms there are certain parts
of a file that are exactly the same, well the code could skip those.
Remember, XOR was a simple example, a better one would be taking letters
of the file and using them as a password for something complex, like NEWDES.

Please CC all replies to: Dani_M._Goldenholz@nrunner.mil.wi.us

Thanks
DanI
