Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!spool.mu.edu!wupost!mont!mizzou1.missouri.edu!C445585
From: C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu (John Kelsey)
Subject: DES Keylength and strength
Message-ID: <16C2D14BF5.C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu>
Sender: news@mont.cs.missouri.edu
Nntp-Posting-Host: mizzou1.missouri.edu
Organization: University of Missouri
Date: Tue, 17 Aug 93 23:36:21 CDT
Lines: 45

   Hmmm.  The most reasonable answer to "why is DES 56 bits" that I've
heard seems to be "because that's roughly the amount of computational
effort needed to break the cipher."  Ie, this gives a user a good estimate
of the strength of the cipher without having to explain differential
attacks to him.  However, this is true specifically of the 16-round
version, and my guess is that *that* is where the key size constraint
that W H Murray mentioned came into play.  It should be possible to
add key bits, slightly modify the key scheduling algorithm, and extend
DES to (say) a 24-round cipher, but presumably this would have taxed the
chip manufacturing skills of IBM at that point.  My guess would be that
this would have run into problems at the level of anything more than
64 bits of key, perhaps with the key scheduling algorithm as much as
anything else.  It may be that one of the informal goals of the DES
designers was to ensure that the keysize was a good indicator of the
amount of work needed to break the cipher.
 
   I really wish I had access to the J of C article of differential
cryptanalysis of DES, rather than just the Crypto '90 procedings, so I
could see the whole paper.  Has anyone seen any work done on extending
the DES by expanding the key and extending the number of rounds?  The
two-key triple-encryption is clearly one way of doing this, but it ought
to be simpler to do it a different way.  (Also, as I commented on before,
triple-encryption with two keys doesn't meet the criterion of keysize
being a good indicator of work needed to break the cipher.)
 
   W H Murray, and several others, also pointed out to me that you could
make the barely feasible keysearch of DES too expensive by simply changing
keys often.  This essentially gives a linear, rather than squaring,
increase in work to break the cipher, but if keysearching 56 bits is
a million-dollar operation once, it's a billion dollar operation if you
have to keysearch 56-bits 1,000 times.
 
   Is there something else I'm missing?
 
*  I should point out that the suggestion that keysize is set to indicate
   difficulty of attacking the cipher isn't mine--I don't recall which of
   the many people responding to this discussion pointed this out, but it
   makes a lot of sense to me.
 
*  W H Murray:  Is there any chance that you're the person who co-wrote
   my 80386 book?
 
   Thanks,
 
   --John Kelsey, c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu
