Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!psinntp!laidbak!obdient!amiserv!austral!rrezaian
From: rrezaian@austral.chi.il.us (Russell Rezaian)
Subject: Re: Cosell on MAGIC declassified
Message-ID: <CByzzD.Gy7@austral.chi.il.us>
Organization: D.O.C.  Data Processing Systems
References: <930816131151.557049@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL> <strnlghtCBv81y.2nK@netcom.com>
Date: Wed, 18 Aug 1993 19:40:20 GMT
Lines: 78

In article <strnlghtCBv81y.2nK@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (David Sternlight) writes:
>As I've said many times, I believe that absent the key escrow, Skipjack is a 
>very secure system--so secure that foreign organizations with NSA's
>capabilities can't break it. Very likely neither can NSA or they wouldn't   
>need the escrow.

A point:  The escrow system is designed to make it unnecessary for any
law enforcement (and arguably other aspects of government) to need to
"break" the encryption.  I am not sure that escrow was intended for the
specific use of the NSA...

It's impossible to judge how secure skipjack really is.  It might be
great.  Knowing the history of the NSA I am inclined to doubt this, simply
because of past actions regarding DES.  The NSA knows also that escrow is
useless with respect to other governments using skipjack chips, it is
trivial for a governemnt to defeat the escrow system.

>Given that, the NSA would not like the bad guys to get Skipjack, whether in 
>hardware or software, since they would then be able to use a non-escrowed   
>version to foil the NSA.         

They can do this trivially "now."  The escrow system requires extra data
that any organization big enough to pose a threat can filter out of the
encrypted stream.  While this can be made more difficult by having
hardware systems test the validity of the "law enforcement" fields I
suspect that this is whole lot easier to break than it is to protect.
Even allowing a "perfect" system, there is no way to prevent a hostile
from using multiple encryption systems before skipjack.

If you pose a threat to the US you'd have to be stupid to use skipjack
alone.

This also fails utterly to take into account the simple fact that "bad
guys" don't have any need for skipjack.  There exist quite a few hard
crytopgraphic systems that can be trivially made harder, and that are
quite resistant to most forms of attack.  Further, as I understand things
the kind of "bad guys" the NSA has to worry about have the resources to
make use of cryptographically perfect algorithms.

>I have made this point repeatedly, and after seemingly agreeing with it,
>Murray then misdirects us by suggesting his point is different from the
>above, and that Denning and I are somehow spouting "nonsense."

I don't agree with your point, at least I don't think I do.  (I could be
misunderstanding you)  Regardless of how secure skipjack is without the
escrow system, the presence of that escrow system (and of skipjack itself)
should not really have any effect on the NSA's ability to decipher
whatever it is they decipher.  No hostile will use a weakened version of
skipjack, so things will be just as harrrd for the NSA as they are now
without skipjack, it isn't relevant.

Skipjack is intended primarily for the arena internal to the US, and
considerations of its use outside the US range from moot to fatuous.

So, having arrived at that conclusion we see that skipjack, however good it
is, is designed to be trivially easy to break from outside (given access
to the escrow database).  Further, skipjack is intended for the domestic
market.  As such, US government data some if not most of it sensitive, will
travel along skipjack links.  Thus hostile espionage need only attempt to
attack the escrow database, and not the algorithm.

So, overall, an escrowed skipjack system can be argued to REDUCE the
overall security of the US, while potentially augmenting the security of
hostiles (and not in any way threatening it).

This seems generally like a "bad thing" to me.  The weakness in skipjack
only threatens legitimate users of the system, anyone using skipjack as a
hostile can trivially bypass those weaknesses.  And that seems kind of
stupid.

>It would be helpful if we could have a straight discussion here, absent
>"chip-on-the-shoulder" messages.

I agree with you fully.  This whole system really doesn't make much sense
to me, and if someone can point out a flaw in my understanding that would
be great.
--
Russell Rezaian
