Newsgroups: sci.crypt
From: aph@aph.demon.co.uk (Andrew Haley)
Path: msuinfo!agate!howland.reston.ans.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!news!demon!aph.demon.co.uk!aph
Subject: Re: another DES question 
Distribution: world
References: <1993Aug18.184003.2300@news.duc.auburn.edu>
Organization: APH Secure Data
Reply-To: aph@aph.demon.co.uk
X-Newsreader: Simple NEWS 1.90 (ka9q DIS 1.21)
Lines: 47
Date: Thu, 19 Aug 1993 08:51:33 +0000
Message-ID: <745750293snz@aph.demon.co.uk>
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk

In article <1993Aug18.184003.2300@news.duc.auburn.edu> wadejer@eng.auburn.edu writes:

>If I have a DES decoding device which is using a key that is unknown to me,
>and I can let the input be anything I want and then acquire the output,

This is called a "chosen ciphertext attack."

>is there a set of different inputs that I can give it that can be used to
>determine the key.  This is different from my last question is so far as
>I would be able to determine the input text as well as send sereral input
>texts through the system.  Can these multiple inputs along with their
>respective outputs be used to find the key, or at least part of the key
>(44 bits or so)?  I have received conflicting reports on the possibility
>of finding the key from an input and output text which are known.  

It is possible, but DES is very well designed, so you need very many
(2^47) ciphertexts to do the cryptanalysis.  This is a chosen
plaintext attack, so the attacker has to determine which 2^47
plaintexts should be encrypted.

>Does anyone have any more information of the Biham and Shamir differential
>cryptanalysis method?

Yes, but you aren't going to find full details posted here.  The
method is quite complex, and you should read the papers.  

Briefly, Differential Cryptanalysis uses particular differences in
pairs of plaintexts and looks at the differences in the corresponding
ciphertexts.  (Note that the particular plaintexts do not matter,
only the difference.)  In the case of DES, the difference used is the
XOR of two ciphertexts.  Every input XOR of an s-box has a
probabilistic distribution of the possible output XORs (the paper
detailed below contains tables of these.)  Differential Cryptanalysis
works because these output XORs are not equiprobable.  The
probability distribution of the output XORs provides clues about the
subkeys being used, and Differential Cryptanalysis homes in on these.

Andrew.

References:

"Differential cryptanalysis of DES-like cryptosystems," Eli Biham and
Adi Shamir, published in the Journal of Cryptology.  There's also a
summary in the Proceedings of CRYPTO '90.

"Differental cryptanalysis of the full DES," by the same authors.

