Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!agate!spool.mu.edu!nigel.msen.com!yale.edu!cs.yale.edu!news-mail-gateway!daemon
From: WHMurray@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Subject: (none)
Message-ID: <930820201552.103567@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL>
Sender: WHMurray.ISSA@DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
Organization: Yale CS Mail/News Gateway
Date: Fri, 20 Aug 1993 20:15:00 GMT
Lines: 61


>You say that the terrorists could be using triple DES with RSA key
>managment. This is, of course, true, they COULD be using such a system.  The
>question is "What are they using?"  Are terrorists spending their time
>or money on custom crypto systems or car bombs?  I suspect (but have no
>way to verify it) that terrorists would use commercial crypto systems
>and spend their time and money on custom car bombs.

We have only speculation to suggest that they are using secret codes at
all.  In the case of the WTC bombing we have direct evidence that they
were not using any.  Even in commerce, the use of crypto is vanishingly
small.  While I  have a number of clients that use crypto for funds transfer
applications, I am aware of only a few that use link crypto, and only
one that uses it for email.   In other words, most of the use is for
message and application integrity; very little is for message secrecy.

At the time of the coup against Gorbachev I was on a program with the
deputy director of the FBI for anti-terrorism.  This was at about the
time of S.266.  As we waited together for our cars in the garage, I asked
him if he was familiar with S.266 and he said that he was not.  I then
asked him if he was aware of any use of secret codes by terrorists that 
would justify such measures and, again, he said that he was not.

Now it is difficult for me to conceive of any pattern of use of crypto by
terrorists that would be sufficient to justify either S.266 or CLIPPER but
that was so sparse as not to be known to the deputy director for anti-
terrorism.

>The social issue needs considerable debate.  How much privacy should the
>citizens give up to allow the law enforcement community to perform their
>anti-terror mission.  Or, any other law enforcement mission...

Indeed, the issues do need debate.  In a solicited opinion piece in the 
"Communications of the ACM" that appeared in the summer of last year, I 
called for just such a debate.  I argued that the issues were too 
important to be decided inside the walls of Fort Meade or even inside 
the government.  Not only was the CLIPPER initiative not debated in the 
political arena, it was classified until it was announced as a fait
acompli.

Of course, NSA argues that the issues are so sensitive that they cannot be
debated in public withour doing irrepairable damage.  I would suggest
that, because of the hiatus in super-power confrontation, we have a
unique window in history for such a debate to be conducted without such
damage.  NSA  would doubtless respond that such a hiatus would have to
last for decades for such a window to exist.

>SCREAMING:  WHY IN HELL AREN'T OUR "REPRESENTATIVES" AND CIVIL LIBERTY
>WATCHDOGS RAISING PLUPERFECT HELL OVER THIS OUTRAGE?!?!?!

Well, that is really two different questions.  The "civil liberty
watchdogs" are raising as much hell as they think that they can without
provoking a backlash.  If by representatives, you mean your congressmen, 
they are effectively silent.  One can only speculate as to why.  The 
speculation is that they are silenced either by fear of NSA or by 
offers of information held by NSA.  While it is difficult to believe, 
it is possible that they simply do not recognize a problem.

William Hugh Murray, Executive Consultant, Information System Security
49 Locust Avenue, Suite 104; New Canaan, Connecticut 06840                
1-0-ATT-0-700-WMURRAY; WHMurray at DOCKMASTER.NCSC.MIL
