Path: msuinfo!uwm.edu!wupost!howland.reston.ans.net!agate!ames!koriel!male.EBay.Sun.COM!jethro.Corp.Sun.COM!news2me.EBay.Sun.COM!cronkite.Central.Sun.COM!texsun!digi!jmccarty
From: jmccarty@digi.lonestar.org (Mike McCarty)
Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Subject: UCC 1-207
Message-ID: <1993Aug18.145229.7592@digi.lonestar.org>
Date: 18 Aug 93 14:52:29 GMT
Organization: DSC Communications Corp, Plano, TX
Lines: 57

I was surprised to see the amount of interest stirred up by my post on
UCC 1-207. I started to reply to each mail, but there was just too
much, so I will post here, even though it is off topic. If this
violates proper protocol, I regret it. I am rather new to the net. I
have used BBS's and FIDO net, but not anything as extensive as the
UseNet before. So please don't flame me for ignorance.

The UCC is the Uniform Commercial Code. Here's the abbreviated version
of why I use the "without prejudice."

In 1938, F.D.Roosevelt and the Congress got together and repealed all
previously passed Federal Law. It was replaced by new Federal Law based
on a "new" concept, Executive Regulation (it also goes by other names).
As a result, we got a new IRS, FCC, FDA, etc. in the EXECUTIVE Branch,
but which exercised LEGISLATIVE (via Regulation, not law) and JUDICIAL
(via internal kangaroo courts) powers. This was challenged in a case
before the Supreme Court. The court agreed that the laws passed
actually did violate the Constitutional Separation of Powers, but that
it was not actually unconstitutional, because Congress could always
repeal the acts and regain the (IMHO unconstitutionally delegated)
power from the executive. The way it works is instead of passing a law
which is clearly written so someone can easily tell just what is
required or prohibited behavior, and courts can easily tell just who
has and who has not committed a crime, the legislative passes a law
creating an executive "commision" or "administration", and saying that
we have to do more-or-less whatever the new executive says we have to
do. See IRS for what that leads to. No-one (but no-one) knows whether
he owes, does not owe, or how much. 

Part of the package evolving from this was the so-called Uniform
Commercial Code. It is in essence an executive order telling us how we
can conduct business. In it are described many "entailing contracts".
These contracts in effect put one under maritime law, not the
constitution, if one creates negotiable instruments, or uses same.
Federal Reserve Notes are not money, they are negotiable instruments.
Checks fall into the same category. But the Federal Govt can't just
force us not to use real money, then use that as an excuse to remove
our constitution from us. So the UCC contains "escape clauses". One of
them appears in Volume 1, page 207. In essence it says that if one uses
or creates a negotiable instrument because he HAS NO OTHER CHOICE, i.e.
not voluntarily, then he may opt out of the entailing contracts. I
prefer to do so. But one must assert the right at the time of using it.
Kinda like if you let someone cross your property a few times, then he
gets the right to continue doing so, because you did not assert your
right not to have him cross your property.

When Bork was asked what he thought of the UCC, he replied that he
thought it was unconstitutional. I agree. I suspect that this reply had
a part to play in him not being confirmed for the Supreme Court.

Hence the "without prejudice, UCC 1-207" I put on all my (hand-written,
not electronic) signatures. I am asserting that I do not accept the
entailing contracts, because I have no other option but to use the
negotiable instrument (like my paycheck; I just can't convince my
company to pay me in gold and silver coin).

Mike
