Newsgroups: sci.crypt
Path: msuinfo!uchinews!linac!uwm.edu!wupost!mont!mizzou1.missouri.edu!C445585
From: C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu (John Kelsey)
Subject: password hashing scheme posted by Detlef Lannert
Message-ID: <16C35FF22.C445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu>
Sender: news@mont.cs.missouri.edu
Nntp-Posting-Host: mizzou1.missouri.edu
Organization: University of Missouri
Date: Wed, 25 Aug 93 18:08:34 CDT
Lines: 34

   I saw some pretty big problems with the password scheme posted by Detlef
Lannert a few days back.
 
   First, it looks like it would be easy to build a *fast* dictionary attacker
for this scheme.  If you work with a pre-sorted dictionary, and save inter-
mediate hash buffer states, you can use some of your effort in hashing
previous words/phrases to hash new words/phrases.  The longer the phrases are,
and the more extensive your dictionary, the bigger time savings will be reaped
on average per word/phrase.
 
   Second, there's no password salt, which would be easy to remedy, but is
a problem until it is remedied.  Without a password salt, an attacker can
build and hash a *really large* dictionary once, and generate a list of
several billion keys to try in an attack against your encrypted text.  The
salt should be as random as possible, and ideally pretty large.
 
   Third, the table would need to be carefully built not to allow any
strong correlations between output bits, or keys generated by the hash
would be significantly skewed.  Ie, if changing input bit i usually
changes output bit j and k the same way, then it looks like this will
make some keys considerably less likely than others.  Other similar
problems seem to exist with randomly-selected tables.  Maybe using some
criteria like those used for S-box selection would help.
 
   Fourth, it seems like the individual output hash bytes would be
correlated somehow, though I haven't spent enough time hacking on it
to determine for sure whehter or not they would.  Has anyone tested
this scheme against an ASCII dictionary (to mirror letter distributions,
letter-sequence distributions, etc.)?  I haven't had much time to play
with this lately, but I may hach around on it some more later this
week.  (We're going through a pretty big re-organization at work, so
I've been busy....)
 
   --John Kelsey, c445585@mizzou1.missouri.edu
