Newsgroups: sci.crypt,comp.org.eff.talk,alt.privacy
Path: msuinfo!agate!spool.mu.edu!torn!news.ccs.queensu.ca!hausner
From: hausner@qucis.queensu.ca (Alejo Hausner)
Subject: How to verify card user's identity without cryptography?
Message-ID: <CCHI7M.8Mx@knot.ccs.queensu.ca>
Sender: news@knot.ccs.queensu.ca (Netnews control)
Organization: M.Sc, C.S, Queen's, Kingston, Canada.
Date: Sat, 28 Aug 1993 19:30:58 GMT
Lines: 43
Xref: msuinfo sci.crypt:18914 comp.org.eff.talk:19943 alt.privacy:8412

I hope these newsgroups are relevant to my question.

Currently in North America, credit cards can be used over the
telephone, without a great deal of verification.  This means that a
thief can obtain card numbers and, through accomplices, can have goods
delivered which he/she can resell.  In fact, I saw a story on "60
minutes" where a felow did just that, even though he was already in
jail, awaiting trial!  By law he was allowed access to a phone, and
that was all he needed.

The credit card companies do not require that a user identify
him/herself on the telephone, and the losses they suffer from this
kind of fraud is small, since most people are honest (or perhaps
naive?).  However, there is going to be more poverty in the next
decade, from what I've heard, and this may drive more people into
crime, making such fraud costly to the companies.

Sorry for the long preamble.

THE QUESTION:

How can you identify yourself securely over the phone, using only
speech?  Cryptographic signatures wouldn't apply, since I'm assuming
no computing facilities.  Even if smart cards are used, and they
contain some sort of key that belongs to the user, they are prone to
theft as much as the credit cards themselves.  And we don't expect the
poor customer to have to remember some cryptic 10-digit password.  Not
everyone has that good a memory, and people often write their ATM
password on their card, thus partially defeating the purpose of the
password.

Of course, there's thumb-prints and retinal patterns, but I'm trying
to think of some method that doesn't use specialized hardware.
Perhaps some incident from childhood that only the user is aware of?
Some sort of personal detail, which would be spoken to the merchant?

And what if the merchant is dishonest?  He/she might record the
information and use it or sell it to others.

Is there any way for me to identify myself without cryptography?

Alejo Hausner (hausner@qucis.queensu.ca)

